PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSION

(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 8 OF 2025

[Certi ed on 19th of June, 2025]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2025

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA ______________________________________________________________________________

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 48.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

1

[Certi ed on 19th of June, 2025]

L.D. O. 9/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSION ACT, NO. 37 OF 1991

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025.

Short title

2. The long title of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amended by the substitution for the words PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION BY OMNIBUS, of the words ROAD TRANSPORTATION.

Amendment of the long title of Act, No. 37 of 1991

3. The Preamble of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows: - (1) in paragraph (a) thereof by the substitution for the words omnibus services, of the words interprovincial omnibus services;

Amendment of the Preamble of the principal enactment

(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) thereof of the following new paragraph: -

(aa) to facilitate road transportation services interprovincially using omnibus services, of ce transport services, school transport services, three-wheeler services and any other interprovincial road transportation service, as may be declared by the Minister;;

(3) in paragraph (b) thereof by the substitution for the words passenger transport by omnibus, of the words road transportation;

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 2

(4) in paragraph (d) thereof by the substitution for the words between providers of such services, of the words in each mode of transportation; and

(5) by the repeal of paragraph (e) thereof and the substitution therefor of the following paragraphs: -

(e) to ensure safe and comfortable road transportation; and

(f) to determine the applicable standards and criteria to improve road transportation..

4. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after section 1 of the principal enactment and shall have effect as section 1A of that enactment: -

Insertion of new section 1A in the principal enactment

1A. The objects of the Act shall be

Objects of the Act

(a) to facilitate omnibus services and transportation services interprovincially;

(b) to monitor omnibus services and transportation services and ensure that standards applicable to such services are met by the transportation service providers; and

(c) to stipulate offences that may be committed by the respective transportation service providers and the penal sanctions that may be imposed by the Commission for such offences..

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

3

5. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows: -

Amendment of section 8 of the principal enactment

(1) by the substitution for the words advise to the Government on the national policy relating to passenger transport services by omnibuses,, of the words advise the Government on the national policy relating to road transportation,;

(2) in paragraph (i) thereof by the substitution for the words in the speci ed area;, of the words in the speci ed area and to issue transportation service permits for transportation services other than omnibus services;;

(3) by the repeal of paragraph (k) thereof and the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

(k) to enter into agreements with any person for the provision of omnibus services and transportation services and to issue passenger service permits and transportation service permits thereof;;

(4) by the repeal of paragraph (m) thereof and the substitution therefor of the following paragraph: -

(m) to arrange the transportation of goods interprovincially by omnibus services and transportation services;; and

(5) by the addition immediately after paragraph (m) thereof of the following new paragraphs: -

(n) to formulate a road transportation guideline at national level;

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 4

(o) to determine a formula to charge transportation fares after considering the written representations of the relevant stakeholders and to periodically assess the national policy relating to road transportation and revise such formula when necessary;

(p) to promote and regulate the use of modern technological systems to upgrade the transportation system;

(q) to facilitate the provision of infrastructure facilities relating to transportation services;

(r) to maintain a national database for transportation services and to monitor the services provided by the transportation service providers;

(s) to establish a training centre to train transportation service providers;

(t) to issue directions to any person to whom a permit has been issued or renewed under this Act;

(u) to appoint sub-committees to assist in the activities of the Commission;

(v) to review the national policy relating to road transportation annually and to advise the Government on legal, administrative or other matters relating to such policy;

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

5

(w) to consult the relevant Ministries, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, District and Divisional Secretaries, public and private sector organizations and recommend such measures as may be necessary for the purpose of preventing road accidents, and to upgrade the transportation services for protecting and safeguarding the interests of passengers;

(x) to receive complaints from the public relating to any contravention of the provisions of this Act or any regulation made thereunder; and

(y) to give wide publicity to matters regulated under section 44, as may be necessary for the convenience of any applicant, passenger, holder of a permit or certi cate, or for the ef cient administration of the Act..

6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended by the repeal of paragraph (h) thereof and the substitution therefor of the following paragraph: -

Amendment of section 9 of the principal enactment

(h) to provide engineering, technical, legal, medical and nancial assistance and advice to holders of passenger service permits and transportation service permits, to enable the proper discharge, of their functions relating to the omnibus services and transportation services; and.

7. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby amended by the substitution for the words to furnish to the Commission,, of the words or a transportation service permit, as the case may be, to furnish to the Commission.

Amendment of section 17 of the principal enactment

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 6

8. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows:-

Amendment of section 19 of the principal enactment

(1) in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for the words within fourteen days of the words within thirty days; and

(2) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section and the substitution of the following marginal note therefor:-

Appeals against any decision of an Authorized Person.

9. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby amended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution for the words fourteen days, of the words thirty days.

Amendment of section 20 of the principal enactment Replacement of section 24 of the principal enactment Criteria for issuing passenger service permits

10. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

24. Upon receipt of an application for a passenger service permit, the Commission shall consider the following criteria prior to granting or refusing passenger service permits:-

(a) the demand for omnibus services by the public on the route or routes applied for in the application;

(b) the capability of the applicant to provide an ef cient service, subject to such terms and conditions as may be appropriate;

(c) suitability of the omnibus to undertake the journeys on any assignable route or routes;

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

7

(d) sustained nancial competence of the applicant, based on a bank statement covering a period of six months immediately preceding the submission of the application, to maintain the omnibus in the manner provided in the Act and the regulations and other written law; and

(e) suitability of the facilities afforded to the driver, conductor and passengers including space allocated for goods or baggage..

11. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after section 24 of the principal enactment and shall have effect as section 24A of that enactment: -

Insertion of new section 24A in the principal enactment

24A. The Commission may, subject to section 18, issue a temporary permit to authorize the operation of an omnibus on such other route or routes and for such period of time as may be determined in accordance with section 24 in order to meet the actual passenger demand and requirement, during a festive season or holiday period and having regard to other social necessities..

Issuing of a temporary permit

12. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby amended in paragraph (c) thereof by the substitution for the words shall be maintained at all times in a t and serviceable condition;, of the words shall be maintained in compliance with the minimum standards as may be prescribed in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission for securing the safety and convenience of the public..

Amendment of section 26 of the principal enactment

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 8

13. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement of section 28 of the principal enactment

28. (1) The holder of a valid passenger service permit may transfer such permit, with the prior approval of the Commission, for the balance period of time speci ed in such permit. The person to whom the transfer is to be effected shall make an application to the Commission, within one week of receiving possession of the omnibus, in the form and manner as may be prescribed and on payment of the prescribed fees whether or not the permit has expired.

Transfer of the permit

(2) The Commission shall consider granting or refusing to grant a passenger service permit, subject to section 18 and the procedure and the terms and conditions provided under section 24, or any speci c criteria prescribed thereon, prior to the grant of or refusal to grant such permit.

(3) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence under section 40..

14. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows:-

Amendment of section 30 of the principal enactment

(1) in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for the words for such period not less than one year and not more than three years calculated from the date of expiry of the permit., of the words for such period not less than one year and not more than

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

9

three years calculated from the date of expiry of the permit, subject to the provisions under section 24, subsection (1) of section 25 and subsection (1) of section 31 and having regard to the performance of such permit holder.;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of that section, of the following new subsection: -

(1A) An application for renewal of a passenger service permit shall be made six months prior to the date of expiry of the permit.;

(3) in subsection (2) thereof -

(a) by the substitution for the words has not paid the prescribed fee for the renewal of the permit. in paragraph (c), of the words has not paid the prescribed fee for the renewal of the permit;;

(b) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) of that subsection of the following new paragraph: -

(d) has not performed satisfactorily, in accordance with the performance criteria determined by the Commission and prescribed by regulation..

15. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows:-

Amendment of section 33 of the principal enactment

(1) in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for the words fourteen days, of the words thirty days; and

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 10

(2) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section and the substitution of the following marginal note therefor:-

Appeals against any decision of the Commission.

16. The following new Part (sections 34A to 34D) is hereby inserted immediately after section 34 of the principal enactment and shall have effect as PART IIA of that enactment: -

Insertion of new PART IIA in the principal enactment

PART IIA

REGULATION OF TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

OPERATED INTERPROVINCIALLY OTHER THAN

INTERPROVINCIAL OMNIBUS SERVICES

34A. (1) Notwithstanding the operation of PART II pertaining to omnibus services, the Minister may, on the recommendation of the Commission, by Order published in the Gazette declare of ce transport services, school transport services and three-wheeler services to be the designated transportation services that could be operated interprovincially. The Minister may vary, amend or repeal such Order from time to time to declare any other means of transportation as may be necessary to be a mode of service for the purposes of this Part to be operated interprovincially.

Declaration and registration of transportation services

(2) (a) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be speci ed in the Order.

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

11

(b) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall, within three months of its publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliament for approval and any Order which is not so approved shall be deemed to be revoked as from the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(c) The date on which any Order is deemed to be so revoked shall be published in the Gazette.

(3) (a) Every transportation service provider shall be registered with the Commission and such service provider shall be issued a permit (hereinafter referred to as the transportation service permit) by the Commission.

(b) The procedure for registration and issuing of transportation service permits shall be as prescribed.

(c) A Register shall be maintained by the Commission for each of the transportation services and the Commission shall simultaneously update the database by entering the relevant registration details in the of cial website of the Commission. The details of the registered transportation service providers shall be declared by noti cation published by the Commission in the Gazette from time to time.

(4) Transportation service provider shall not provide transportation services unless registered with the Commission in terms of this section.

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 12

(5) The transportation service permit shall be issued or shall not be issued, as the case may be, subject to the terms and conditions of the respective transportation service and the standards of such service required to be maintained by the said permit holder, as may be prescribed from time to time.

(6) Transportation service provider who

(a) alters the transportation service permit;

(b) produces false documents; or

(c) provides any transportation service through a vehicle that has not been registered under subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. The Commission shall publish the names and details of such convicted transportation service providers in the website, until the penalty for the offence has been settled in full and the transportation service provider has been registered in the manner provided in this section.

34B. (1) The Minister may, on the advice of the Commission, categorize the transportation services into classes and from time to time prescribe the standards to be maintained by any such service.

Categorization of transportation services and the issue of a certi cate

(2) Where the Minister has categorized the transportation services into classes, the

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

13

Commission shall issue a certi cate to the holder of a transportation service permit according to such categorization.

34c. (1) The holder of a transportation service permit shall display the certi cate issued under section 34B on the windscreen of the vehicle to which it relates, to be clearly visible to any person boarding such transportation vehicle.

Certi cate to be displayed on the windscreen

(2) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) or who displays, a representation so nearly representing the certi cate in such a manner as to mislead or confuse a third party, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

34D. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Commission under this Part may appeal against such decision to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister within thirty days from the date on which such decision is communicated to such aggrieved person.

Appeals under PART IIA of the Act

(2) The provisions of section 33 of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to any appeal under subsection (1)..

17. Section 35 of the principal enactment is hereby amended in subsection (2) thereof as follows:-

Amendment of section 35 of the principal enactment

(1) in paragraph (b) thereof by the substitution for the word Act., of the word Act;; and

(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (b) thereof of the following new paragraph: -

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 14

(c) all sums directed to be paid thereto by a court or under any other written law or by a Magistrate in his discretion..

18. Section 37 of the principal enactment is hereby amended by the substitution for the words and gures The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution, of the words and gures The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution and the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018.

Amendment of section 37 of the principal enactment

19. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after section 38 of the principal enactment and shall have effect as section 38A of the principal enactment:-

Insertion of new section 38A in the principal enactment

38A. (1) The transportation service fares for transportation services, including omnibus services, shall be computed by the Commission in accordance with the formula determined by the Commission from time to time in accordance with the national policy relating to transportation fares approved by Parliament, and speci ed by Order published in the Gazette.

Computation of the fare

(2) The Commission shall publish the lists of the transportation service fares pertaining to the respective transportation services in the of cial website of the Commission. Each transportation service provider shall prepare a list of the transportation service fares applicable to his service in accordance with such lists published in such website and such list shall be displayed in a conspicuous place of the transportation vehicle.

(3) The Commission may inspect from time to time, in accordance with the provisions of

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

15

subsection (2) of section 39, as to whether the transportation service providers have complied with the provisions of this section, and any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offence under section 40..

20. The following new sections are hereby inserted immediately after the heading GENERAL of the principal enactment and shall have effect as sections 38B, 38C and 38D of that enactment: -

Insertion of new sections 38B, 38C and 38D in the principal enactment

38B. (1) The Commission shall monitor the omnibus services and transportation services -

Commission to monitor omnibus services and transportation services

(a) to ensure a safe, ef cient and effective road transportation service with the assistance of the relevant Government agencies, and call for reports from the said Government agencies -

(i) of the said monitoring activities; and

(ii) of any remedial measures taken by the said service providers; and

(b) to assess the effect of sound pollution and other emissions from the vehicles used, with the assistance of the Central Environmental Authority and to compel adherence to the

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 16

standards speci ed under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

(2) Every permit holder who fails to maintain the vehicle for which a permit has been issued, in accordance with the standards speci ed under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a ne not exceeding ve hundred thousand rupees.

(3) The monitoring procedure by the Commission under this section shall be as prescribed.

38C. (1) There shall be established a training centre for the upliftment of transportation services under the Commission. The purpose of the Centre shall be to enhance the overall capacity of the transportation service providers by affording training opportunities in mechanical skills, road safety emergency measures and road etiquette.

Establishment of a training centre

(2) The management of the Centre including the maintenance of records, reporting, nancial accountability and monitoring shall be undertaken by the Commission in the manner as prescribed.

38D. (1) The Minister shall prescribe codes of conduct which shall be applicable in respect of interprovincial omnibus services and all or any of the transportation services provided in subsection (1) of section 34A.

Powers of the Minister to prescribe codes of conduct

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

17

(2) The regulations under subsection (1) shall be made only on the advice of the Commission, having obtained the approval of Parliament.

(3) (a) Where any transportation service provider contravenes or fails to comply with any matter set out in any code of conduct prescribed in terms of subsection (1) or there is a reasonable likelihood of such contravention or non-compliance, the Commission may conduct an inquiry in accordance with the procedure as may be prescribed.

(b) After giving the respective transportation service provider an opportunity to be heard at the inquiry under paragraph (a), the Commission may, issue a directive to such transportation service provider, within such time as may be prescribed

(i) to cease and refrain from doing an act or omitting to do an act related to the respective code of conduct;

(ii) to perform such acts as in the opinion of the Commission are necessary to rectify the situation; or

(iii) to make a payment of such sum of money as compensation to an aggrieved person who has suffered harm, loss or damage as a result of any contravention by

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 18

a transportation service provider under paragraph (a) as the Commission may determine.

(c) Every directive issued under paragraph (b) shall be in writing and be communicated to the transportation service provider to whom it is directed by registered post, electronic communication or other similar means determined by the Commission. Such directive shall be binding on such transportation service provider who shall comply with such directive from the date of such communication..

21. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement of section 39 of the principal enactment

39. (1) The Commission may issue such general or special directions as it may consider necessary to any person to whom a permit has been issued or renewed under this Act, for the purpose of making such person comply with the provisions of this Act or any regulations made thereunder or with any condition attached to such permit. It shall be the duty of such person to whom such directions are issued to comply with such directions within the time speci ed in such directions.

Power of Commission to issue directions to permit holders

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an of cer authorized by the Commission in writing may at any time

(a) get on board a transportation vehicle to ascertain whether the terms and conditions speci ed

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

19

in the permit, directions issued under subsection (1) and the matters provided in this Act and regulations made thereunder have been complied with; or

(b) require the production by the driver of such vehicle, of the certi cate issued under section 34 or section 34B, as the case may be, or of any other document granted in respect of that vehicle and may, where necessary take into custody such certi cate, other document or copy thereof.

(3) Any person who is aggrieved by any direction, order or decision of any of cer authorized by the Commission in terms of subsection (2) may prefer an appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister within thirty days from the date on which such direction, order or decision is communicated to such aggrieved person.

(4) The provisions of section 33 of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to an appeal made under subsection (3)..

22. The following new section is hereby inserted immediately after section 39 of the principal enactment and shall have effect as section 39A of the principal enactment:-

Insertion of new section 39A in the principal enactment

39A. (1) Where a transportation service provider fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (3) of section 38D, the Commission

Imposition of penalties

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 20

shall issue a notice to inform the transportation service provider the penalty to be imposed specifying the reasons for such imposition, after taking into consideration the impact on passengers and the nature and extent of the relevant non-compliance. The Commission shall afford an opportunity for such service provider to make representations in person or in writing within a duration of twenty-one days from the date of receipt of the notice.

(2) Upon the expiry of the time duration speci ed in subsection (1), the Commission shall make a decision and communicate it to the transportation service provider by issuing a certi cate under his hand. Such certi cate may specify a penalty, which shall not exceed a sum of rupees one hundred thousand for each non- compliance, or exempt such service provider from the penalty, as the case may be.

(3) A transportation service provider who has been subjected to a penalty on a previous occasion, subsequently fails to conform to a directive issued under the provisions of subsection (3) of section 38D, in addition to the penalty which may be imposed under subsection (2) shall be liable to the payment of an additional penalty consisting of twice the amount imposed as a penalty under that section for the second and subsequent occasions of non-compliance.

(4) The Commission shall be responsible for the collection of a penalty imposed under this section and the money so collected shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

21

after deducting such sum of money collected as compensation, if any, payable to the aggrieved person in terms of subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of section 38D.

(5) (a) If a transportation service provider fails to pay the penalty for which such service provider is liable under this section, the Commission may make an ex parte application to the Magistrate Court of Colombo for an order requiring the payment of the penalty to be recovered in a like manner as a ne imposed by such court notwithstanding such sum may exceed the amount of ne which that court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.

(b) If a transportation service provider becomes liable to a penalty for three or more occasions within a period of six calendar months, on an application made by the Commission, the Magistrate may order the suspension of the permit for a period not exceeding three months.

(6) The imposition of a penalty under this section shall not preclude a relevant regulatory or statutory body from taking any other regulatory measures including, but not limited to, the suspension of such transportation service provider from carrying on the respective transportation service or the cancellation of the licence granted for carrying on such service.

(7) (a) Any transportation service provider who is aggrieved by the imposition of an administrative penalty under this section, may

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 22

prefer an appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister within thirty days from the date on which such administrative penalty was communicated to such aggrieved person.

(b) The provisions of section 33 of this Act shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to an appeal made under paragraph (a)..

23. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby amended by the repeal of all the words from to a ne not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees to the end of that section and the substitution therefor of the following words: -

Amendment of section 40 of the principal enactment

to a ne not less than two hundred and fty thousand rupees and not exceeding ve hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding ve years..

24. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby amended in subsection (1) thereof as follows: -

Amendment of section 44 of the principal enactment

(1) in paragraph (f) thereof by the substitution for the word authorized., of the word authorized;; and

(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (f) thereof of the following new paragraphs: -

(g) registration of the transportation services;

(h) the procedure, terms and conditions relating to the issue, validation, transfer, renewal, extension of any certi cate, permit or other document issued under this Act or any change made to any certi cate, permit or other document;

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

23

(i) the selection criteria and selection process of applicants to be granted a route permit;

(j) the fees and charges to be levied under this Act;

(k) categorization of classes of the transportation services, the service standards to be maintained by the transportation service providers and the criteria to determine the different fares of the respective transportation vehicles;

(l) the guidelines for the effective implementation of any database to be maintained by the Commission to facilitate a secure, ef cient and up to date transport service;

(m) the procurement of new services, including standards and conditions relating to the use of electronic means to charge fares and the Global Positioning System;

(n) management of the Training Centre;

(o) the standards of service to be maintained by a holder of a permit and monitoring of such standards by the Commission;

(p) codes of conduct applicable in respect of transportation services and the procedure of the inquiry conducted by the Commission in the event of any contravention of any such code of conduct;

(q) conditions relating to the inspection of permits and certi cates issued; and

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 24

(r) mode and manner of reservation of seats in respect of omnibus services and transportation services..

25. Section 46H of the principal enactment is hereby amended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for the words only in respect of an omnibus the capacity of which is not less than forty seats, of the words only in respect of an omnibus the capacity of which is not less than forty seats and in respect of an air-conditioned bus the capacity of which is not less than twenty seats.

Amendment of section 46H of the principal enactment

26. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby amended as follows:-

Amendment of section 49 of the principal enactment

(1) by the insertion immediately after the de nition of the expression Peoplised Company, of the following new de nitions: -

prescribed means prescribed by regulations; Province means a Province speci ed in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Council established by Article 154A of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;;

(2) by the substitution in the de nition of the expression speci ed area for the words for the carriage of passengers., of the words for the carriage of passengers;; and

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025

25

(3) by the addition immediately after the de nition of the expression speci ed area, of the following new de nitions: -

transportation fares includes a fee or hire charged to provide transportation services;

transportation services means providing travelling facilities by charging a fare for passengers commuting interprovincially using of ce transport services, school transport services, three-wheeler services including a call-up service or a freelance service involving any other motorized or non-motorized form of transportation service, and for the carriage of goods interprovincially;

transportation vehicle means any vehicle constructed for carriage of passengers and goods utilizing interprovincial road transportation services and includes an omnibus;

vehicle shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Motor traf c Act (Chapter 203)..

27. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency

National Transport Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 2025 26

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.