
---- PAGE 0001 ----

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 410'00 	
Pos tage : Rs. 200'00
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PROCEEDS OF CRIME 
ACT, NO. 5 OF 2025
[Certified on 30th of April 2025]
Printed on the Order of Government.
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialis t Republic of Sri Lanka of May 02, 2025.


---- PAGE 0002 ----



---- PAGE 0003 ----

1
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
An  Act To Provide For The Recovery of Proceeds of 
Crime, To Provide For The Investigation, Restraint, 
Forfeiture And Disposal of Proceeds of Crime, 
To Provide For The Protection, Preservation, 
Management of Restrained Proceeds of Crime, 
To Establish the Proceeds of Crime Management 
Authority, 
To 
Provide 
For 
Inter-agency 
cooperation 
and International Collaboration 
Relating To The Recovery of Proceeds of Crime, 
and To Provide For Matters Connected Therewith 
or Incidental Thereto
WHEREAS the committing of unlawful activities results 
in serious consequences and in certain circumstances 
causes pecuniary and other losses and the deprivation of the 
enjoyment of property rights by victims of such unlawful 
activities, the public at large and the state: 
AND WHEREAS those who commit unlawful activities do 
not possess any legal right or other entitlement to enjoy and 
benefit from proceeds of such unlawful activities, and those 
who receive or derive proprietary rights to proceeds of such 
unlawful activities also do not possess any legal right to such 
property: 
AND WHEREAS it is the responsibility of the state to 
take necessary measures to deprive perpetrators benefitting 
from proceeds of such unlawful activities and to have such 
proceeds returned to those who shall otherwise have received 
the entitlement to benefit from such proceeds:
AND WHEREAS the existing legislation including the 
Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure Act, Offences 
Against Public Property Act, Convention on the Suppression 
of Terrorist Financing Act, Prevention of Money Laundering 
Act, Financial Transactions Reporting Act and the Anti-
Preamble
L.D. - O. 78/2024
[Certified on 30th of April, 2025]


---- PAGE 0004 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
2
Corruption Act need to be supplemented by new legislation 
for the purpose of providing an efficacious legislative 
framework for the effective identifying, tracing, detecting, 
investigating, restraining, seizure, preserving, protecting, 
managing, judicial freezing, forfeiting and returning 
proceeds of crime to those who are legitimately entitled to 
such property:
AND WHEREAS for the purpose of realizing the objectives 
of this Act, it is necessary to vest duties and responsibilities 
on certain law enforcement officers and to suitably empower 
them to perform such duties and responsibilities, and also to 
establish certain statutory bodies including the Proceeds of 
Crime Management Authority:
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for a legislative 
mechanism to enable law enforcement authorities of Sri 
Lanka to cooperate with law enforcement, administrative 
and judicial authorities of other countries with regard to 
proceeds of crime located both within and outside Sri Lanka, 
and to cause the return to Sri Lanka or repatriate from Sri 
Lanka such proceeds of crime or value thereof to those who 
are legitimately entitled to such property:
AND WHEREAS it is necessary to provide restitution 
and repatriation to victims of crime and to the community 
or the general public who have been affected by unlawful 
activities, and for such purpose provide for the creation and 
establishment of the Victims of Crime Reparation Trust 
Fund:
AND WHEREAS it is also necessary to give full effect to 
Sri Lanka’s obligations under the United Nations Convention 
Against Corruption, the United Nations Convention Against 
Transnational Organized Crime, and the United Nations 


---- PAGE 0005 ----

3
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Convention Against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and 
Psychotropic Substances and to enact legislation relating 
to proceeds of crime, compatible with contemporary 
international norms and best practices:
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
  1.  (1) This Act may be cited as the Proceeds of Crime 
Act, No. 5 of 2025.
  (2) The provisions of this Act other than this section, shall 
come into operation on such date as the Minister may by 
Order published in the Gazette appoint: 
Provided however, every provision of this Act shall 
come into operation not later than twelve months from the 
date of coming into operation of this section. 
(3) The provisions of this section shall come into operation 
on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.
  2.  The objectives of this Act shall be to  —
	 (a) 	disincentivize the committing of unlawful 
activities for the purpose of benefitting from the 
proceeds of such unlawful activities;
	 (b) 	prevent and deprive any person from benefitting 
from the proceeds of unlawful activities 
committed by such person or by any other 
person; 
	 (c) 	facilitate the investigation into the committing 
of unlawful activities including bribery and 
corruption, drug trafficking, terrorist financing 
and other organized and financial crimes; 
Short title
and date of 
operation
Objectives of the 
Act


---- PAGE 0006 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
4
	 (d) 	provide for the recognition, adoption and 
enforcement of special investigation techniques 
and 
cooperation 
between 
domestic 
law 
enforcement and administrative authorities 
pertaining to investigation of proceeds of crime;
	 (e) 	facilitate 
and 
provide 
for 
the 
tracing, 
identification and recovery of proceeds of 
crime;
	 (f) 	provide for restraining the use and seizure of 
proceeds of crime;
	 (g) 	provide for the issuance of judicial orders for 
the judicial freezing of proceeds of crime;
	 (h) 	provide for protection, preservation and 
management of proceeds of crime including 
the disposal of proceeds of crime under 
certain circumstances pending the conduct and 
completion of forfeiture proceedings;
	 (i) 	deter the committing of unlawful activities 
which yield proceeds of crime; 
	 (p) 	provide for legislative mechanisms for the 
conduct of judicial proceedings and the issuance 
of judicial orders for the forfeiture of proceeds 
of crime – 
	
(i) 	
following the conviction of a person for 
having committed an unlawful activity 
which yielded such proceeds of crime 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘post-
conviction forfeiture proceedings’); and 


---- PAGE 0007 ----

5
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
(ii) 	 independent of prosecuting a person for 
having committed the unlawful activity 
which yielded such proceeds of crimes 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘non-
conviction based forfeiture proceedings’);
	 (k) 	recognize and provide a cause of action in civil 
law to enable victims of crime to recover loss or 
damage through civil litigation;
	 (l) 	establish a statutory authority for the protection, 
preservation, management and disposal of 
restrained, seized or frozen proceeds of crime;
	 (m) 	provide a mechanism for the management and 
the use of the realized value of the disposal of 
forfeited proceeds of crime;
	 (n) 	establish a Trust Fund to provide for restitution 
and reparation to victims of crime;
	 (o) 	provide a mechanism for cooperation, mutual 
assistance and reciprocity with judicial, law 
enforcement and administrative authorities of 
other countries pertaining to the recovery of 
proceeds of crime or value located overseas and 
for repatriation of the value of proceeds of crime 
located in Sri Lanka; and
	 (p) 	give effect to Sri Lanka’s obligations under 
the 	 United 	 Nations 
Convention 
Against 
Corruption, the United Nations Convention 
Against Transnational Organized Crime and 
international standards and best practices 


---- PAGE 0008 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
6
pertaining to anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorist activities. 
  3.  (1) This Act shall apply to -
	 (a) 	any person who commits any unlawful activity 
or any part thereof in Sri Lanka including in its 
territorial waters, air space, on board an aircraft 
or a vessel registered in Sri Lanka or chartered 
by any person in Sri Lanka, including any 
unlawful activity committed prior to  coming 
into operation of this Act provided at the time 
of committing such unlawful activity it was an 
offence;
	 (b) 	any person who is a Sri Lankan citizen or is 
resident in Sri Lanka who commits any unlawful 
activity or part thereof outside Sri Lanka; 
	 (c) 	any diplomatic or consular officer of Sri Lanka 
notwithstanding the provisions of the Diplomatic 
Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996 and any immunity 
that may have been conferred on such officer by 
any foreign state;
	 (d) 	any person who commits an unlawful activity 
or part thereof in or outside Sri Lanka with 
regard to public property of Sri Lanka whether 
proceeds of such unlawful activity are found 
within or outside Sri Lanka;  
	 (e) 	any person who commits an unlawful activity or 
part thereof in or outside Sri Lanka with regard 
to or in respect of a citizen of Sri Lanka whether 
proceeds of such unlawful activity are found 
within or outside Sri Lanka;
Applicability of  
the  Act


---- PAGE 0009 ----

7
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (f) 	any person who commits an unlawful activity 
or part thereof in or outside Sri Lanka which 
has an adverse impact or any potential of such 
impact on the legitimate interests of Sri Lanka 
or its citizen whether proceeds of such unlawful 
activity are found within or outside Sri Lanka;
	 (g) 	any person who commits an unlawful activity 
or part thereof from within the premises of any 
diplomatic or consular mission of Sri Lanka or 
the place of residence of a diplomatic or consular 
officer of Sri Lanka, independent of whether or 
not such place of residence has been procured 
using public funds of Sri Lanka; 
	 (h) 	any person who commits an unlawful activity 
or part thereof within the premises occupied on 
behalf of or under the control of the Government 
of Sri Lanka or a statutory body established by 
any law of Sri Lanka, or within the place of 
residence of an employee of such statutory body 
situated outside Sri Lanka;
	 (i) 	any person who commits an offence under this 
Act within or outside Sri Lanka, including in its 
territorial waters, air space, on board an aircraft 
or a vessel registered in Sri Lanka or chartered 
or otherwise used by any person in Sri Lanka;
	 (j) 	any proceeds of crime found in Sri Lanka or 
on board an aircraft or a vessel registered in 
Sri Lanka or aircraft or a vessel chartered by a 
citizen or a resident of Sri Lanka;


---- PAGE 0010 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
8
	
(k) 	 any proceeds of crime found in or 
outside Sri Lanka, of an unlawful activity 
committed in Sri Lanka;
	
(l) 	
any proceeds of crime found in or 
outside Sri Lanka, of an unlawful activity 
committed outside Sri Lanka by a citizen 
or a resident of Sri Lanka;
	
(m) 	 any proceeds of crime brought into, in 
transit, bound for, passing through or 
taken out of Sri Lanka. 
(2)  The provisions of this Act shall not apply where the 
proceeds of an unlawful activity have been forfeited in terms 
of the applicable law prior to the coming into operation of 
this Act, or in the alternative of such forfeiture, a penalty or 
other sanction has been imposed in terms of the applicable 
law and complied with.
4.  (1) Subject to the provisions of section 3, provisions of 
this Act shall apply to proceeds of crime located in or outside 
Sri Lanka, notwithstanding the corresponding unlawful 
activity, which yielded such proceeds, being committed 
prior to the coming into operation of this Act. 
(2)  No person shall be punished for having committed 
any offence under this Act, unless such offence was 
committed after the coming into operation of this Act:
Provided however, if an act which constitutes an 
offence under this Act shall have been continued to be 
perpetrated at the time of this Act coming into operation, 
it shall be possible to deal with such perpetrator as having 
committed the relevant offence under this Act. 
Temporal 
Applicability of 
the Act


---- PAGE 0011 ----

9
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
5.  The provisions of this Act shall prevail over the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act relating to proceeds 
of crime that are obtained, derived out of or realized by 
committing an offence under the Anti-Corruption Act, 
and the investigation, tracing, identification, detection, 
restraining, seizure, judicial freezing, sentencing, protection, 
preservation, management, disposal pending forfeiture or 
release, forfeiture, release and disbursement of proceeds of 
crime shall be conducted in terms of the provisions of this 
Act: 
Provided however, nothing in this Act shall, 
in any manner, prevent or preclude the investigation 
of offences under the Anti-Corruption Act being 
conducted in the manner provided for in that Act. 
  
PART I
General Provisions and Offences
  6.  Any person who knowing or having reasonable 
grounds to believe that any property is proceeds of crime, 
directly or indirectly does any act by himself or with 
the participation of others, including the carrying out of 
any transaction or giving advice relating to any act for 
the purpose of converting, transferring, concealing or 
disguising –
	
(a)	
the origin, true nature, source, location, 
disposition, 
movement, 
ownership, 
acquisition, possession, use of, or value of 
such property or part thereof;
	
(b)	
the identities of persons who may have 
committed the unlawful activity which 
Application of the 
Act with regard 
to proceeds of 
crime derived out 
of committing 
offences in the 
Anti-Corruption 
Act.
Concealment 
or disguising 
of proceeds of 
crime, etc. to be an 
offence.


---- PAGE 0012 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
10
gave rise to such property; or
	
(c)	
the identities of persons who possess 
beneficial interests relating to such 
property,
commits an offence. 
7. Any person who knowing or having reasonable 
grounds to believe that a property is proceeds of crime, 
acquires, possesses, uses, has custody, exercises dominion 
over, controls, or retains such property commits an offence. 
8.  Any person who knowingly destroys any evidence 
relating to any property which is proceeds of crime commits 
an offence.
  9.  Any person who breaches or obstructs the enforcement 
or implementation of any-
	 (a)	 restraining order, seizure, judicial freezing 
order;
 
	 (b)	 notice or order issued by a law enforcement 
officer under this Act;
	 (c)	 judicial order issued in respect of an investigation 
into proceeds of crime; or 
	 (d)	 judicial order made under this Act relating to 
proceeds of crime,
commits an offence. 
Acquisition, 
possession 
etc. of proceeds 
of crime to be
an offence
Breach or 
obstruction 
of the 
enforcement or
implementation 
 of orders to be
an offence.
Destruction. 
of evidence of 
proceeds of crime 
to be
an offence.


---- PAGE 0013 ----

11
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
  10.  Any person served with a notice under section 68 of 
this Act who-
	 (a)	 refuses to accept; 
	 (b)	 fails to respond truthfully to; or 
	 (c)	 provides knowingly a false or inaccurate 
response or wilfully makes a misrepresentation 
or act of deception to, 
such notice commits an offence.
  11.  Any person who intentionally aids, advices, induces, 
influences, or threatens another to whom a notice under 
section 68 has been served to provide a false or misleading 
or deceptive response to such notice, commits an offence.
  12.  Any person who presents a false or misleading claim, 
description or representation to the High Court for the 
purpose of preventing the judicial freezing of any property, 
discharge of any property, or having a judicial freezing order 
varied or vacated, commits an offence.
  13.  Any person who presents a false or misleading claim, 
description, representation or an affidavit containing a false 
or misleading description or a false document to the High 
Court for the purpose of preventing the forfeiture of or the 
release of any property, commits an offence.
  14.  (1) Any person, who attempts or conspires to commit 
any offence under section 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or 13, or aids 
or abets the commission of such offence commits an offence. 
(2) In this section “abet”, “aid” and “conspiracy” shall 
have the same meaning as in sections 100, 111 and 113 of 
the Penal Code.
Failure to accept 
a notice or 
provision of false 
response to a 
notice to be
an offence.
Aiding the 
provision of false 
response to a 
notice to be an 
offence.
Presenting a false 
or misleading 
claim to prevent 
judicial freezing 
to be
an offence.
Presenting a false 
or misleading 
claim to prevent 
forfeiture to be an 
offence.
Aiding and 
abetting an 
offence under 
section 6, 7, 8, 9, 
10, 11, 12, or 13 
to be an offence.


---- PAGE 0014 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
12
15.  (1) The High Court shall have jurisdiction to try and 
punish a person on indictment by the Attorney-General for 
having committed any offence under section 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 
11, 12, 13 or 14: 
Provided however, if such offence had been committed 
in respect of proceeds of crime which had been derived 
out of the committing of an offence contained in the Anti-
Corruption Act, the Director-General of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption acting on a 
direction issued by the Commission shall have the authority 
to prefer indictment and prosecute the accused.
(2) Any person who commits an offence specified in 
section 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 shall on conviction 
after trial by the High Court be liable to a fine not exceeding 
rupees ten million and to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding fifteen years. The provisions of sections 303 and 
306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, shall not be 
applicable with regard to such sentence of imprisonment.

  16.  (1) Any person who has knowledge or information 
which he believes to be true pertaining to- 
	 (a)	 proceeds of crime, including the location, and 
nature of such proceeds of crime;
 
	 (b)	 the concealment or disguise of proceeds of 
crime;
	 (c)	 any transactions relating to proceeds of crime; 
or
	 (d)	 committing of any offence contained in this Act,
and fails to disclose such information to the Police Designated 
Failure to disclose 
knowledge or 
information to be 
an offence.
High Court to
try offences
under section 6, 7, 
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 
or 14 and penalty 
for such
offences.


---- PAGE 0015 ----

13
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Officer or to the Designated Officer of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, commits 
an offence:
Provided however, an Attorney-at-Law who in the 
course of the performance of his professional duties receives 
information pertaining to the existence of or any information 
relating to proceeds of crime, he shall not be required to 
provide such information to the Police Designated Officer or 
to the Designated Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, if he is required in 
terms of professional ethics to maintain confidentiality 
relating to such information:
Provided further, any person who in the course of his 
employment or providing professional services receives 
or becomes aware of any information pertaining to any 
proceeds of crime, and provides such information to the 
compliance officer appointed in terms of section 14 of the 
Financial Transactions Reporting Act or in the absence of a 
compliance officer to the supervisory authority recognized 
for the purposes of the Financial Transactions Reporting 
Act and where there is no such supervisory authority, to 
the principal executive officer of his employer, shall not be 
required to comply with such disclosure:
Provided further, where any person fails to disclose 
such information as provided in this section, if it appears 
that the purpose for failure to disclose information by such 
person was in good faith and for the purpose of facilitating 
the advancement of the objectives of this Act, such person 
who fails to disclose such information shall be deemed not 
to have committed an offence.
(2) Where any knowledge or information under subsection 
(1) relates to proceeds of crime pertaining to an offence 


---- PAGE 0016 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
14
contained in the Anti-Corruption Act such knowledge or 
information shall be disclosed to the Designated Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption. Such knowledge or information pertaining to all 
such other proceeds of crime shall be disclosed to the Police 
Designated Officer.
  17. Any person who dissuades, prevents, obstructs or 
advices any other person from disclosing information 
pertaining to proceeds of crime to a Designated Officer, or 
an Investigation Officer, commits an offence:
Provided however, an Attorney-at-Law providing 
professional service in accordance with the professional 
ethics shall not be accused of having committed this offence.
  18.  Any person, who intentionally interferes, instructs, 
advices, obstructs, prevents, dissuades or takes any other 
measure to prevent, dissuade, or obstruct any person who 
is empowered under this Act to perform any function, from 
the performance of such function commits an offence:
Provided however, it shall not be an offence for a 
person duly authorized or empowered under this Act in 
good faith for a purpose which is not inconsistent with the 
objectives of this Act to issue instructions or give advice in 
the manner provided by this Act.
  19.  Any person who in his official capacity or otherwise 
takes any decision or engages in any act which is not 
provided by law, administrative regulations or rules, which 
amounts to-
	 (a)	 an adverse change in a condition, entitlement or 
a privilege of employment;
	 (b)	 reprisal; 
	 (c)	 coercion; 
Dissuading, 
preventing etc. 
of disclosing 
information 
pertaining to 
proceeds of crime 
to be
an offence.
Obstructing 
persons 
empowered under 
this Act to be
an offence.
Conduct which 
is not provided 
by law with the 
object of causing 
any detrimental 
effect to a person 
authorized  under 
this Act to be
an offence.


---- PAGE 0017 ----

15
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (d)	 intimidation;
 
	 (e)	 retaliation; 
	 (f)	 harassment; or 
	 (g)	 deprivation of any entitlement, 
with the object of causing any detrimental effect or pain of 
mind to any other person in relation to any action taken in 
good faith and in a lawful manner by such other person who 
had been authorized under this Act to perform such action, 
commits an offence.
  20.  Any person who is not authorized or empowered 
by this Act or by any other law to issue instructions or 
give advice to a Designated Officer or to an Investigation 
Officer to perform any function or exercise any power under 
this Act, issues any direction, gives advice, influences the 
performance of any function or exercise of any power, 
solicits or obtains any information or material, with the view 
to defeating the objectives of this Act, commits an offence.
  21.  Any person – 
	 (a)	 from whom information, documents or other 
material has been called for by a Designated 
Officer or an Investigation Officer; 
	 (b)	 who has been required by a duly authorized 
person under this Act to perform any function or 
provide any information or material; or
	 (c)	 who has been directed by an order of any Court 
to provide any information, document or any 
other material, or render any service or conduct 
any activity, 
Unauthorized 
issuing of direction 
etc. with the view 
to defeating the 
objectives of this 
Act to be
an offence.
Unauthorized 
disclosure of 
information to be
an offence.


---- PAGE 0018 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
16
unless it is necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the 
objectives of this Act, provides information in respect of 
such matter to any other person who is not authorized under 
this Act to receive such information, commits an offence.
Explanation:
Where an Investigation Officer has issued a notice to a bank either 
directly or through an order issued by a Magistrate requiring 
such bank to provide details of a particular bank account and to 
submit certain documents relating to such account, an employee 
of such bank who reveals such requirement imposed on the 
bank to the account holder or to any third party, commits an 
offence under this section. 
  22.  Any person being a Designated Officer, an 
Investigation Officer or any other person who is superior, 
parallel, or subordinate to a Designated Officer or an 
Investigation Officer including any person who may possess 
managerial, supervisory or administrative authority in 
respect of a Designated Officer or an Investigation Officer 
who discloses, causes the release of or directs the disclosure 
or release of the information that – 
	 (a)	 any person is being investigated into under this 
Act; 
	 (b)	 any property is being investigated on suspicion 
that it is proceeds of crime;
	 (c)	 a person named or otherwise described is 
conducting an investigation under this Act or is 
advising in the conduct of investigation under 
this Act or is otherwise assisting in the conduct 
of an investigation; 
Direction 
to disclose 
information by 
an unauthorized 
person to be
an offence.


---- PAGE 0019 ----

17
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (d)	 an application is being made under this Act to a 
court of law; or
	 (e)	 an order of restraint, seizure, judicial freezing, 
forfeiture is to be made in respect of any 
property, 
commits an offence:
Provided however, it shall not be an offence, if such 
information is provided by reason of -
	 (a)	 his being required or authorized by this Act or 
any other law; 
	 (b)	 his acting for the purpose of giving effect to the 
provisions of this Act; or 
	 (c)	 his having done so in response to an order made 
by a court of law. 
23.  Any person who fails to comply with a duty conferred 
on him by this Act commits an offence:
 Provided however, if such person can establish that 
he has in good faith attempted to fulfil the relevant duty and 
the failure to perform such duty was for reasons beyond his 
control, he shall not be liable for prosecution or conviction.
24.  (1) Any person, who attempts or conspires to commit 
any offence under section 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, or 23, 
or aids or abets the commission of such offence commits an 
offence. 
(2) In this section “abet”, “aid” and “conspiracy” shall 
have the same meaning as in sections 100, 111 and 113 of 
the Penal Code.
Failure to perform 
a duty to be
an offence.
Aiding and 
abetting an 
offence under 
section 16, 17, 18, 
19, 20, 21, 22, or 
23 to be
an offence


---- PAGE 0020 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
18
25. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the 
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Magistrate’s court 
shall have jurisdiction to try a person against whom criminal 
proceedings have been instituted in such court for having 
committed offences contained in section 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 
21, 22, 23, or 24 with the sanction of the Attorney-General 
and punish such person in terms of this Act. 
(2)  If an offence contained in section 16, 17, 18, 19, 
20, 21, 22, 23, or 24 has been committed in respect of any 
property obtained, derived or realized out of committing of an 
offence under the Anti-Corruption Act, the Director-General 
of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption acting on a direction of the Commission shall 
be entitled to investigate the committing of such offence, 
institute criminal proceedings and prosecute the accused. 
(3)  Any person convicted of having committed an 
offence under section 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, or 
24 shall be punished with imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding five years and with a fine not exceeding one 
million rupees. The provisions of section 306 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act shall not be applicable with regard 
to such sentence of imprisonment.
26.  (1) Where an offence under this Act is committed by 
an incorporated body of persons all Directors of such body 
at the time of committing such offence shall, in addition to 
the incorporated body of persons, be individually liable for 
the committing of such offence, notwithstanding each such 
Director not being responsible for committing the act which 
constitute the relevant offence: 
Provided however, that no such Director shall be –
	 (a)	 prosecuted if he satisfies the Investigation 
Offences 
committed by an 
incorporated body
Magistrate’s Court 
to try offences
under section 16, 
17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 
22, 23, or 24 and 
penalty for such
offences


---- PAGE 0021 ----

19
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Officer who conducted the investigation; or
	 (b)	 deemed to be guilty for having committed an 
offence if he on a balance of probability proves 
before court, 
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or 
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission 
of the offence. 
(2) For the purpose of instituting criminal proceedings 
against Directors of an incorporated body of persons, it shall 
not be necessary to first prosecute and obtain a conviction 
against the corresponding incorporated body of persons.
27.  (1) Where an offence under this Act is committed by 
an unincorporated body of persons all office bearers of such 
body at the time of committing such offence shall, in addition 
to the unincorporated body of persons be individually liable 
for the committing of such offence, notwithstanding each 
such office bearer not being responsible for committing the 
act which constitute the relevant offence: 
Provided however, that no such office bearer shall be -
	 (a)	 prosecuted if he satisfies the Investigation 
Officer who conducted the investigation; or
	 (b)	 deemed to be guilty for having committed an 
offence if he on a balance of probability proves 
before court, 
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or 
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission 
of the offence. 
Offences 
committed by 
an unincorporated 
body


---- PAGE 0022 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
20
(2) For the purpose of instituting criminal proceedings 
against any office bearer of an unincorporated body of 
persons, it shall not be necessary to first prosecute and obtain 
a conviction against the corresponding unincorporated body 
of persons.
28.  Where an offence under this Act is committed by in 
the name and style of a partnership, its partners at the time 
of committing such offence shall be individually liable for 
the committing of such offence, notwithstanding each such 
partner not being responsible for committing the act which 
constitute the relevant offence: 
Provided however, that no such partner shall be-
	 (a)	 prosecuted if he satisfies the Investigation 
Officer who conducted the investigation; or
	 (b)	 deemed to be guilty for having committed an 
offence if he on a balance of probability proves 
before court, 
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or 
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission 
of the offence. 
29.  All offences under this Act shall be cognizable 
offences for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
Act.
30.  Subject to the provisions of this Act, an investigation 
into the committing of an offence under this Act shall be 
conducted in the manner provided in the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act and where applicable in terms of any other 
written law.
Offences 
committed by a 
partnership
All offences 
under this Act 
to be cognizable 
offences
Offences under
this Act to be
investigated
under the 
provisions  of the
Code of  Criminal
Procedure Act


---- PAGE 0023 ----

21
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
31.  Any person who in the course of his employment, 
profession, trade, business, occupation or in the discharge 
of contractual duties comes across or has knowledge or 
information pertaining to-
	 (a)	 proceeds of crime, including the location, 
nature, value, the identity of the person having 
possession, custody, dominion of such proceeds 
of crime, concealment or disguising of proceeds 
of crime or any transactions relating to proceeds 
of crime; or
	 (b)	 committing of any offence under this Act,
shall disclose such information to the Police Designated 
Officer or the Designated Officer of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, who shall 
issue an acknowledgement of such information to the person 
who provided such information: 
Provided however, an Attorney-at-Law who in the 
course of his professional duties receives such knowledge or 
information shall not be obliged to discharge this statutory 
duty if he is required in terms of professional ethics to 
maintain confidentiality of the information he has received, 
unless the person who provides such information has 
consented to the release of such information as provided in 
this Act:
Provided further, any person who in the course of his 
employment or providing professional services receives 
or becomes aware of any information pertaining to any 
proceeds of crime, and provides such information to the 
compliance officer appointed in terms of section 14 of the 
Financial Transactions Reporting Act or in the absence of a 
compliance officer to the supervisory authority recognized 
Duty 
to disclose 
information


---- PAGE 0024 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
22
for the purposes of the Financial Transactions Reporting 
Act and where there is no such supervisory authority, to 
the principal executive officer of his employer, shall not be 
required to comply with such disclosure:
Provided further, where any person fails to disclose 
such information as provided in this section, if it appears 
that the purpose for failure to disclose information by such 
person was in good faith and for the purpose of facilitating 
the advancement of the objectives of this Act, such person 
who fails to disclose such information shall be deemed not 
to have committed an offence.
32.  (1) A person who has discharged his statutory 
duty under and in terms of section 31 or a whistleblower, 
shall be entitled to claim from the Police Designated 
Officer or the Designated Officer of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption to whom 
the information was provided that his identity shall not be 
disclosed.
(2)  A person who has discharged his statutory duty in 
terms of section 31 or a whistleblower shall, if he perceives or 
receives any threat or harm to his person, family or property, 
or damage to his reputation, be entitled to receive protection 
under and in terms of the Assistance to and Protection of 
Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act.
(3)  No person who has discharged his duty in terms 
of section 31 or a whistleblower shall by virtue of such 
discharge of statutory duty or being a whistleblower be 
subject to disciplinary action or an adverse change in the 
terms and conditions of his employment.
(4)  Notwithstanding any prohibition of or restriction on 
the disclosure of information under any other law, contract, 
Protection 
of informants 
and 
whistleblowers


---- PAGE 0025 ----

23
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
oath, or practice, a person who has provided information 
under section 31 or a whistleblower shall not be subject 
to detrimental action on account of having provided such 
information.
(5)  No person shall be subject to any civil or criminal 
liability as a result of providing such information under 
section 31 or as a whistleblower.
(6)  An Investigation Officer or any other person who 
may be called to testify in any judicial proceedings shall 
not be compelled to reveal the identity of any person who 
has discharged his statutory duty in terms of section 31 or a 
whistleblower.
(7)  Any provision in a letter of appointment issued to 
an employee or any direction issued to an employee or any 
clause in a contract of or for services or any other agreement 
between an employer, an employee, independent contractor 
or any other service provider, is void in so far as it -
	 (a)	 excludes or purports to exclude any provision of 
this Act; 
	 (b)	 prohibits, prevents, or obstructs the fulfilment of 
any duty contained in this Act; or 
	 (c)	 purports to preclude or discourage the 
performance of any act to the extent required by 
this Act.
(8)  Any person who wilfully acts in contravention of the 
provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of this section commits 
an offence and shall be punished on conviction before a 
Magistrate with imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
five years and with a fine not exceeding one million rupees.


---- PAGE 0026 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
24
The provisions of section 306 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act shall not be applicable with regard to such 
sentence of imprisonment.
33. (1) Notwithstanding any provision of any law which 
requires a person or an institution to maintain confidentiality 
of certain information, the officers specified in subsection 
(2) shall, upon information pertaining to any one or more 
of the following coming to his knowledge, provide such 
information in writing to the Designated Officer under 
whose purview the investigation of the relevant proceeds of 
crime or the offence has been vested by this Act:-  
	 (a)	 the possible existence of proceeds of crime; 
	 (b)	 the identity of persons who may be possessing, 
having custody, exercising dominion or control 
of proceeds of crime;
	 (c)	 the possible committing of an unlawful activity 
and the person who had been complicit in such 
offence; or 
	 (d)	 the committing of an offence under this Act. 
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the officers required 
by this Act to provide information shall be- 
	 (a)	 the Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit 
appointed in terms of the Financial Transactions 
Reporting Act;
 
	 (b)	 the Auditor-General appointed under Article 
153 of the Constitution; 
	 (c)	 the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue 
Statutory duty of 
certain officers 
to provide 
information 
pertaining to 
proceeds of crime


---- PAGE 0027 ----

25
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
appointed under section 97 of the Inland 
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;
	 (d)	 the Director-General of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption 
appointed under section 17 of the Anti-
Corruption Act in so far as such information may 
relate to an offence or proceeds of crime falling 
within the purview of the Police Designated 
Officer;
	 (e)	 the Police Designated Officer in so far as 
such information may relate to an offence or 
proceeds of crime falling within the purview of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption;
	 (f)	 the Commissioner-General of Excise appointed 
under section 7 of the Excise Ordinance (Chapter 
52);
	 (g)	 the Director-General of Customs appointed 
under section 2 of the Customs Ordinance 
(Chapter 235);
	 (h)	 the Commander of Sri Lanka Army raised and 
maintained under the Army Act, (Chapter 357);
	 (i)	 the Commander of Sri Lanka Navy raised and 
maintained under section 2 of the Navy Act, 
(Chapter 358);
	 (j)	 the Commander of Sri Lanka Air Force raised 


---- PAGE 0028 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
26
and maintained under section 2 of the Air 
Force Act, (Chapter 359);
	 (k)	 the Head of any government Department;
	 (l)	 the Director-General of the Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Commission 
of 
Sri 
Lanka appointed under section 19 of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of 
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
	 (m)	 the Chief Executive Officer of any 
statutory authority or body corporate;
	 (n)	 the Commissioner General of Motor 
Traffic appointed under section 204 of the 
Motor Traffic Act, (Chapter 203);
	 (o)	 the Registrar-General of Lands appointed 
under section 2 of the Registration of 
Documents Ordinance (Chapter 117);
	 (p)	 Registrar General of Title and Registrars 
of Title appointed under section 3 of the 
Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998;
	 (q)	 the Mayor or Chairman of a Municipal 
Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya 
Sabha;
	 (r)	 a Secretary, Special Commissioner or a 
Chief administrator of a local authority;
	 (s)	 a District Secretary, a Divisional  Secretary 
or a Grama Niladhari;


---- PAGE 0029 ----

27
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (t)	 a secretary to a ministry of a Minister 
appointed under Article 44 or 45 of the 
Constitution;
	 (u)	 a secretary to a ministry of a Provincial 
Council; 
	 (v)	 the Registrar General of Companies 
appointed under section 47 of the 
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007;
	 (w)	 the officer designated as head of the 
Department of Foreign Exchange for the 
purposes of Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 
of 2017 referred to in section 3 of that Act;
	 (x)	 the National Secretariate established under 
the Voluntary Social Service Organizations 
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No.31 
of 1980;
	 (y)	 the 
Commissioner 
General 
for 
the 
Registration of Persons appointed under 
section 3 of the Registration of Persons 
Act, No. 32 of 1968;
	 (z)	 the Election Commission;
	(aa) 	the Chief executive officer or general 
manager of any bank of which the majority 
shareholding shall be either directly or 
otherwise held by the Secretary to the 
Treasury;
	(bb) 	the Chief Executive officer or the general 
manager of any institution which has 
been recognized for the purposes of the 


---- PAGE 0030 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
28
Financial Transaction Reporting Act as either 
a Finance Business or as a Designated Non 
Finance Business;
	
(cc)	 the Secretary General of the Parliament of 
Sri Lanka appointed under Article 65 of 
the Constitution;
	
(dd) 	 the Chairman of Credit Information 
Bureau appointed under section 5 of the 
Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka 
Act, No. 18 of 1990;
	
(ee)	 the Controller of Immigration and 
Emigration appointed under section 4 
of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act 
(Chapter 351);
	
(ff)	
the Controller of Imports and Exports 
appointed under section 2 of the Imports 
and Exports (Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969;
	
	
(gg)	 the Commissioner of Land appointed 
under section 3 of the Land Development 
Ordinance (Chapter 464);
	
(hh)	 the principal executive officer of the 
Colombo Stock Exchange;
	
(ii)	
the Governing Board of the Central Bank 
of Sri Lanka established under section 8 
of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 
16 of 2023;


---- PAGE 0031 ----

29
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
(jj)	
Chairman of the Board of Investment 
established under the Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;
	
(kk) 	 Director-General of Intellectual Property 
appointed under section 2 of the 
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003;
	
(ll) 	 Chairperson of the Colombo Port City 
Economic Commission established under 
section 3 of the Colombo Port City 
Economic Commission Act;
	
(mm)	any other person holding public office 
who may be designated by the Minister, 
in consultation with the Police Designated 
Officer and the Designated Officer of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption. 
(3) It shall be the duty of all officers specified in 
subsection (2), within a period of one year of this Act 
coming into operation, to put in place internal administrative 
mechanisms to ensure that if the institution of which he is the 
principal executive officer receives any information referred 
to in subsection (1) of this section, that such information be 
forthwith brought to his attention. 
(4) Upon receipt of information provided under this 
section by a Designated Officer, a written acknowledgement 
shall be issued and the information shall be forthwith 
presented to the relevant officers for action in terms of this 
Act. 


---- PAGE 0032 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
30
  34. (1) For the purposes set out in subsection (2), it shall 
be lawful to presume until the contrary is proven, that any 
property acquired, received, possessed, has dominion over 
or controlled by a person is, proceeds of any unlawful 
activity, property procured using proceeds of any unlawful 
activity or has been derived or realized directly or indirectly 
from committing an unlawful activity, if such property or 
part thereof- 
	 (a)	 is money, cannot be or could not have been - 
	
(i)	
part of the known lawful income, receipts 
or entrustments of such person; or
	
(ii)	
money to which his known lawful income, 
receipts or entrustments has or had been 
converted; or 
	 (b)	 is not money, which cannot be or could not have 
been - 
	
(i)	
property lawfully acquired with any part 
of his known lawful income, receipts or 
entrustments;   
	
(ii)	
property which is or was part of his known 
lawful income, receipts or entrustments; 
or 
	
(iii)	 property to which any part of  his known 
income, receipts or entrustments has or 
had been converted.
(2) The purposes referred to in subsection (1) shall be -
	 (a)	 making an order restraining the use of suspected 
proceeds of crime; 
Presumption


---- PAGE 0033 ----

31
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b)	 making an order for the preservation of suspected 
proceeds of crime;
	 (c)	 seizure of suspected proceeds of crime; 
	 (d)	 judicial freezing of suspected proceeds of crime; 
and
	 (e)	 forfeiture of proceeds of crime, 
under this Act.
(3) The burden shall lie on the person claiming that 
a particular property is not proceeds of crime, property 
procured using proceeds of any unlawful activity or has been 
derived or realized directly or indirectly from committing an 
unlawful activity, to prove on a balance of probability that 
such property was derived out of his lawful income, receipts 
or property. 
(4) Where in the circumstances the presumption may 
be applied and no person proves on a balance of probability 
that the property in issue is not proceeds of crime, property 
procured using proceeds of any unlawful activity or has been 
derived or realized directly or indirectly from committing an 
unlawful activity, this presumption may be used by the High 
Court to conclude that there exists prima-facie evidence that 
the property in issue is proceeds of any unlawful activity, 
property procured using proceeds of crime, or has been 
derived or realized directly or indirectly from committing an 
unlawful activity.   
  35. (1) Subject to the prohibition contained in section 25 
of the Evidence Ordinance, and notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, a 
statement made or response given in the form of an affidavit 
Admissibility 
of response to a 
notice calling for 
explanation


---- PAGE 0034 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
32
or a written or oral statement to an Investigation Officer in 
response to a notice served on such person under section 68 
of this Act, shall be admissible against the maker of such 
affidavit or statement or against any third party -
	 (a)	 when deciding whether or not to restrain or seize 
suspected proceeds of crime; 
	 (b)	 in judicial proceedings instituted under this Act 
for judicial freezing and forfeiture of proceeds of 
crime; or
 
	 (c)	 in respect of applications for the release of 
restrained, seized or frozen proceeds of crime or 
any part thereof. 
(2) Any party whose interests that may be affected by the 
use or proving of the contents of such affidavit or statement, 
shall be entitled to present evidence to establish the contrary. 
(3) Where a person makes a statement or gives a response 
in the form of an affidavit or written or oral statement in 
response to a notice served on such person under section 
68 of this Act, and such person is prosecuted for having 
committed an unlawful activity, the contents of such 
statement or response shall not be admissible against such 
person as substantive evidence: 
Provided however, if such person in his defence 
chooses to give or tender evidence on his behalf, the contents 
of such statement or response shall be admissible to- 
 	(a) 	prove that he made a different statement at a 
different time, and therefor for the purpose of 
assessment of credibility of such person; and


---- PAGE 0035 ----

33
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
 	(b) 	to rebut evidence placed on behalf of the 
accused.    
36. A statement made by any person to a police officer 
who has exercised a function under this Act to interview and 
record a statement of such person, shall not be used against 
the maker of such statement in any criminal proceedings 
against such person, unless subject to section 25 of the 
Evidence Ordinance the content of such statement is used 
for the purpose of proving that he made a different statement 
at a different point of time:
Provided  however, such a statement shall be used 
to proving the contents of a statement which resulted in 
the recovery of proceeds of crime, and in judicial freezing 
and forfeiture proceedings to establish that the property in 
respect of which proceedings are been conducted is proceeds 
of crime.
37. Any statement made by any person to a person who 
is not a police officer who is duly authorized to perform 
any function under this Act, shall be admissible against 
the maker of such statement, subject to the provisions of 
sections 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the Evidence 
Ordinance.   
38. In prosecutions and in actions under this Act, the 
provisions of the Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 
shall apply to and in relation to the admissibility of evidence 
of electronic records or other electronic documents.
39. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the 
Evidence Ordinance, a certificate from a foreign competent 
authority certified by the Attorney-General as amounting to 
a certificate from a foreign competent authority, regarding a 
property located in the country of such competent authority
Admissibility of a 
statement made to a 
police  offier under 
this Act
Admissibility 
of evidence of 
electronic records 
or other electronic 
documents
Admissibility of a 
certificate from a 
foreign competent 
authority
Admissibility of 
a statement made 
to a person who is 
not a police  offier 
under this Act


---- PAGE 0036 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
34
certifying that such property is proceeds of crime 
together with supporting documentary evidence in 
support of such claim, shall be prima-facie evidence of 
the relevant property being proceeds of crime, without 
the foreign competent authority being called to testify. 
40. (1) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby 
declared that a conviction for the commission of 
any specific unlawful activity by any person, shall 
not be required as proof that proceeds of crime have 
been derived or realized from such unlawful activity. 
(2)  For the purpose of proving a charge of ‘Concealment 
or disguising of proceeds of crime, etc.’ proving or presenting 
evidence regarding any one or more of the following shall 
not be necessary :-
	 (a)	 that the person being prosecuted committed the 
corresponding unlawful activity;
	 (b)	 that the person being prosecuted benefited from 
either the relevant proceeds of crime or the 
corresponding unlawful activity;
	 (c)	 the date or place of the committing of the 
corresponding unlawful activity; or
	 (d)	 that the corresponding unlawful activity was 
committed within Sri Lanka.  
  41. (1) The Magistrate’s court shall in addition to the 
jurisdiction and the powers vested in it by the Judicature Act 
and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act have the power to –
	 (a)	 make orders as provided in this Act to enable 
Investigation Officers to conduct investigations, 
Avoidance of 
doubt 
Jurisdiction and 
powers of the 
Magistrate’s Court


---- PAGE 0037 ----

35
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
gather information, documents and material 
for investigation purposes and the search of 
premises, other locations and devices;
	 (b)	 make orders as provided in this Act authorizing 
the conduct of special investigation techniques;
	 (c)	 take note of restraining orders issued by 
Investigation Officers and seizure of property; 
	 (d)	 take note of judicial freezing of suspected 
proceeds of crime by the High Court; 
	 (e)	 record the statement of any person on the 
application of an Investigation Officer. Such 
application shall be made during the course of 
an investigation into any suspected proceeds of 
crime and having first recorded a statement of 
such person by an Investigation Officer;
	 (f)	 make any other necessary order for the purpose 
of achieving the objectives of this Act; and 
	 (g)	 subject to the provisions of this Act, adopt a 
fair sui generis procedure for the conduct of 
proceedings, for the purpose of achieving the 
objectives of this Act.
(2)  Any reference in this Act to a Magistrate shall mean 
the Magistrate in whose jurisdiction the property believed to 
be proceeds of crime is located, and where – 
	 (a)	 the location of the property cannot be traced;
 
	 (b)	 the property is in parts located within the 
jurisdiction of more than one Magistrate;


---- PAGE 0038 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
36
	 (c)	 the property has a virtual presence or is in cyber 
space;  
	 (d)	 the property is intangible; or 
	 (e)	 the property is located overseas, 
shall mean the Magistrate of Colombo.
42. The High Court shall in addition to the jurisdiction 
and powers vested in it by the Judicature Act and the Code 
of Criminal Procedure Act have the power to – 
	 (a)	 issue, extend, vary, and vacate judicial freezing 
orders and in that regard entertain and carry out 
necessary proceedings;
	 (b)	 make orders for the protection, preservation and 
management of proceeds of crime; 
	 (c)	 as provided in this Act, conduct proceedings and 
make orders for the forfeiture of proceeds of 
crime, including making of a proceeds of crime 
forfeiture order, substituted property forfeiture 
order, and substituted money forfeiture order; 
	 (d)	 make orders for the disposal and release of 
proceeds of crime; 
	 (e)	 make any other order which would be necessary 
to achieve the objectives of this Act; and
	 (f)	 subject to the provisions of this Act, adopt a 
fair sui generis procedure for the conduct of 
proceedings, for the purpose of achieving the 
objectives of this Act.  
Jurisdiction and 
powers of the 
High Court  


---- PAGE 0039 ----

37
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
43. (1) The Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption shall have the power to authorize 
either generally or on a case-by-case basis, the performance 
of duties and the exercise of powers conferred on the 
Director-General of the Commission as the Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption for the purposes of this Act. 
(2) The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery 
or Corruption shall have the power to – 
	 (a)	 authorize the making of applications to the High 
Court to obtain orders for judicial freezing of 
proceeds of crime; 
	 (b)	 direct the institution of criminal proceedings for 
offences committed under this Act; 
	 (c)	 authorize the making of applications for 
forfeiture of proceeds of crime; 
	 (d)	 take 
necessary 
steps 
to 
make 
any 
applications in terms of this Act and any 
applications ancillary thereto in any court ;
	 (e)	 instruct an Attorney-at-Law of the Commission, 
request the Attorney-General to appoint an 
Attorney-at-Law of the Attorney-General’s 
Department or retain the services of any 
Attorney-at-Law to appear on behalf of the 
Director-General and represent the Commission 
with regard to matters stated in paragraphs (a), 
(b), (c) and (d) of this subsection; and 
	 (f)	 obtain and act upon legal advice of the Attorney-
General with regard to the performance of the 
Powers of the 
Commission 
to Investigate 
Allegations 
of Bribery or 
Corruption under 
this Act


---- PAGE 0040 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
38
functions of the Commission under this Act and 
with regard to the functions of the Designated 
Officer and Investigation Officers of the 
Commission. 
(3) For the purposes of this Act, the Commission shall 
have power to designate any officer of the Commission as an 
Investigation Officer, who shall thereafter perform functions 
and exercise powers under this Act vested in Investigation 
Officers.
(4) For the purposes of achieving the objectives of this 
Act including the due performance of the functions of 
the Designated Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and the Investigation 
Officers of the Commission, the Commission shall in 
consultation with the Designated Officer appoint such 
other officers of the Commission to advise and assist the 
Designated Officer and Investigation Officers.
(5) The designation of an officer of the Commission as 
an Investigation Officer for the purposes of this Act shall 
not preclude such officer from performing any functions 
and powers entrusted to him by the Anti-Corruption Act or 
administratively vested in him by the Commission.
(6) The Commission shall have the power to refer any 
matter to the Attorney- General, and in such situations, the 
Attorney-General shall exercise powers conferred on him 
by this Act and by the Code of Criminal Procedure Act 
subject to general or case specific instructions issued by the 
Commission. 
(7) If in the course of conducting an investigation 
into proceeds of crime or taking any step under this Act 


---- PAGE 0041 ----

39
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
pertaining to such proceeds of crime, the committing of 
an offence which is not contained in the Anti-Corruption 
Act is disclosed, the Commission shall refer the alleged 
committing of such offence to the Inspector General of 
Police to take action in terms of the law:  
Provided however, if the committing of an offence 
under this Act is disclosed the Commission shall take 
necessary actions in that regard in terms of this Act.
(8) The quorum of the Commission to exercise its 
powers and discharge its functions under this Act shall be 
two members of whom one shall be a Commissioner who is 
an Attorney-at-Law.
(9) In this Act wherever there is a reference to the 
functions and powers of the Attorney-General such 
reference shall be read as a reference to the Director-
General of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption where such powers and functions 
relate to proceeds of crime emanating from unlawful 
activities which come within the investigative and 
prosecutorial competence of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption. The Director-General 
of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery 
or Corruption shall discharge such functions and exercise 
powers subject to general or case specific directions of the 
Commission. 
(10) In this Act where there is a reference to the functions 
and powers of a Designated Officer such reference shall 
be read as a reference to the Director-General of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, where such powers and functions relate to 
proceeds of crime emanating from unlawful activities 
which come within the investigative and prosecutorial 


---- PAGE 0042 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
40
competence of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption.
(11) In this Act where there is a reference to the functions 
and powers of an Investigation Officer such reference 
shall be read as a reference to an authorized officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, where such powers and functions relate to 
proceeds of crime emanating from unlawful activities which 
come within the investigative and prosecutorial competence 
of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption.
44. (1) The Attorney-General shall have the power to 
advise-
	 (a)	 the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption and its officers when 
advice is sought; 
	 (b)	 either ex-mero motu or when sought, the Police 
Designated Officer and Police Investigation 
Officers regarding the conduct of investigations 
and the exercise of duties and powers conferred 
on such officers by this Act; and
	 (c)	 the Authority regarding its duties and functions 
under this Act.
(2)   The Attorney- General shall have the power to-
	 (a)	 present indictments to the High Court and 
conduct prosecutions regarding the committing 
of offences under this Act;
	 (b)	 sanction the institution of criminal proceedings, 
Powers of 
the Attorney- 
General under 
this Act


---- PAGE 0043 ----

41
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
undertake, conduct and carry-on criminal 
proceedings in the Magistrate’s court pertaining 
to the committing of offences contained in this 
Act;
	 (c)	 on behalf of the Police Designated Officer 
or Police Investigation Officer make any 
application to the Magistrate’s Court; 
	 (d)	 make applications referred to in this Act to the 
High Court in respect of proceeds of crime and 
matters incidental thereto including applications 
for judicial freezing of proceeds of crime and 
forfeiture of proceeds of crime; and
 
	 (e)	 call for and examine any record, file or document 
of the Police or the Authority.
(3) The Attorney-General shall have the power to make 
recommendations to the High Court pertaining to –
	 (a)	 the protection, management and preservation 
of proceeds of crime in respect of which an 
application for judicial freezing to the High 
Court has been made or an order of judicial 
freezing has been made by the High Court; 
	 (b)	 restraining or preservation order which has been 
made by an Investigation Officer; or 
	 (c)	 property suspected to be proceeds of crime 
which has been seized by an Investigation 
Officer. 


---- PAGE 0044 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
42
(4) The Attorney-General shall by himself or by an officer 
of the Attorney-General’s Department or by an Attorney-
at-Law authorized by the Attorney-General be entitled to 
intervene, appear, and make representations on behalf of the 
state in any court of law in any proceedings instituted under 
this Act.
(5) The powers and functions of the Attorney-General 
conferred on him by this Act shall be performed by the 
Attorney-General himself or by an officer generally or 
specially authorized in that regard by the Attorney-General.
  
45. (1) There shall be a Division of the Sri Lanka Police 
which shall be called the Proceeds of Crime Investigation 
Division (hereinafter referred to as the “PCID”) of the 
Sri Lanka Police, consisting of a Director-General who 
shall be the head of the PCID, a Deputy Director-General 
and such number of officers, for the purpose of this Act.
(2) The Police Designated Officer referred to in this Act 
shall be the Director-General of the PCID.
(3) The Police Deputy Designated Officer referred to in 
this Act shall be the Deputy Director-General of the PCID.
(4) The Police Investigation Officers referred to in this Act 
shall be officers attached to the PCID. They shall perform 
their functions in terms of this Act under the directions of 
the Director-General of the PCID. They may be assigned 
to another Division, Bureau, Unit or to a Police Station for 
the purposes of effectively carrying out their duties and 
functions under this Act.
(5) The National Police Commission shall be empowered 
to appoint on a recommendation of the Inspector General 
of Police a suitable number of police officers to the PCID 
to assist the Police Designated Officer and the Police 
Investigation Officers. 
Proceeds of Crime 
Investigation 
Division of 
Sri  Lanka Police


---- PAGE 0045 ----

43
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(6) Subject to administrative directions issued by the 
Inspector General of Police and the Director-General of 
the PCID, any police officer attached to the PCID shall 
be empowered to conduct investigation into any unlawful 
activity related to proceeds of crime being investigated into 
by such officer, provided he is authorized to do so in terms of 
the Police Ordinance, Code of Criminal Procedure Act, and 
any other applicable law.
(7) Any police officer not below the rank of an Inspector 
of Police shall subject to case specific approval given by the 
Director-General of the PCID, be entitled to exercise the 
powers and functions conferred on a Police Investigation 
Officer by this Act and conduct investigations, and take 
action as provided in this Act with regard to any proceeds 
of crime.
(8) For the purpose of facilitating and providing necessary 
expertise to enable the carrying out of the objectives of this 
Act and the due performance of the duties and functions of the 
Police Designated Officer and Police Investigation Officers, 
the National Police Commission shall on a recommendation 
of the Inspector General of Police be empowered to appoint 
either on a full or part-time basis or on an assignment basis 
experts possessing necessary knowledge, qualifications, 
experience and expertise to the PCID. 
(9) Upon a consideration of the qualifications, experience 
and expertise of the relevant expert and the assignments to be 
entrusted to such experts, the National Police Commission 
shall on an individual basis determine the remuneration 
payable to such experts. 
(10) Where in the view of the Director-General of the 
PCID, an investigation into suspected proceeds of crime is 


---- PAGE 0046 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
44
complex, unusual, long-drawn, or multi-jurisdictional, and 
the funds assigned to the PCID is insufficient to duly carry 
out the investigation, the Director-General of the PCID 
may make a request together with reasons therefor to the 
Authority to assign necessary financial resources required 
for the efficient conduct of such investigation.
46. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a Police 
Designated Officer and a Police Deputy Designated Officer.
(2) The Police Designated Officer shall be a Police officer 
holding a rank not below the rank of Deputy Inspector 
General of Police and may be a Senior Deputy Inspector 
General of Police. The Police Deputy Designated Officer 
shall be a Police officer holding a rank not below the rank of 
Senior Superintendent of Police.
(3) The Police Deputy Designated Officer shall be entitled 
to perform all such duties, functions and powers vested by 
this Act on the Police Designated Officer, subject to such 
duties, functions and powers having been delegated to him 
by the Police Designated Officer either generally or on an 
investigation specific basis: 
Provided however, subject to provisions of this section 
in situations where the Police Designated Officer is unable 
to perform his duties, functions and powers under this Act 
due to illness, incapacity or any other reason, the Police 
Deputy Designated Officer shall be entitled to perform the 
Police Designated Officer’s duties, functions and powers 
for a period not exceeding seven days, notwithstanding the 
absence of general or specific delegation.
(4) The Police Designated Officer and the Police Deputy 
Designated Officer shall be appointed by the National Police 
Commission based on three nominations each made in that 
regard by the Inspector General of Police.
Police Designated 
Officer and 
Police Deputy 
Designated 
Officer


---- PAGE 0047 ----

45
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(5) The Police Designated Officer and the Police Deputy 
Designated Officer shall be appointed for a period of three 
years each, and may be re-appointed for another term of 
three years, only:
 Provided however, the first Police Deputy Designated 
Officer shall be entitled to hold office for a period not 
exceeding four years.
(6) Where the National Police Commission is unable to 
appoint a Police Designated Officer within seventy two hours 
following a vacancy arising in such position, for reasons to 
be recorded, the National Police Commission shall appoint 
the Police Deputy Designated Officer to act for the Police 
Designated Officer for a period not exceeding three months. 
The period of the acting Police Designated Officer shall not 
be extended.
(7) Where due to reasons of illness, incapacity or any 
other circumstances the Police Designated Officer is unable 
to perform his duties and functions for a period exceeding 
seven days, the National Police Commission shall appoint 
the Police Deputy Designated Officer to act for the Police 
Designated Officer for a period not exceeding three months. 
The period of the acting Police Designated Officer shall not 
be extended.
(8) The Police Designated Officer shall be subject to the 
superintendence of the Inspector General of Police and the 
National Police Commission with regard to the performance 
of his duties, functions and exercise of powers under this 
Act: 
Provided however, for the purposes of this Act, 
the Inspector General of Police and the National Police 
Commission shall not be empowered to issue investigation-
specific directions to the Police Designated Officer.


---- PAGE 0048 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
46
(9) The Police Designated Officer and the Police Deputy 
Designated Officer may be removed by the National Police 
Commission in consultation with the Inspector General of 
Police on grounds of-
	 (a)	 acting contrary to the provisions of this Act or 
any other law;
	 (b)	 committing of an offence in respect of any 
property or any part thereof which has been 
entrusted to him in terms of this Act;
	 (c)	 acting contrary to an order of a court made under 
this Act;
	 (d)	 acting in a manner which amounts to abuse of 
power;
	 (e)	 acting in bad faith or otherwise conducting 
himself in a disreputable, corrupt, or any other 
manner which gives rise to questionable integrity 
or misconduct; or
	 (f)	 acting in a manner defeating the objectives of 
this Act or failing to realize the objectives in an 
efficient manner.
47. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a 
Designated Officer and a Deputy Designated Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, who shall perform the duties, functions and 
exercise powers conferred on him by this Act with the 
approval of the Commission.
(2) The Director-General of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption shall be the Designated 
Designated Officer 
and Deputy 
Designated 
Officer of the 
Commission 
to Investigate 
Allegations 
of Bribery or 
Corruption


---- PAGE 0049 ----

47
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption.
(3) The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery 
or Corruption shall from among senior authorized officers of 
the Commission authorized to conduct investigations under 
the Anti-Corruption Act appoint an officer to function as the 
Deputy Designated Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption for the purposes of this 
Act.
(4) The Designated Officer and the Deputy Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption shall be responsible to the Commission 
as regards the performance of his duties, functions and the 
exercise of powers conferred on him by this Act.
(5) The Deputy Designated Officer of the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption shall 
be entitled to perform all such duties, functions and 
powers vested by this Act on the Designated Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, subject to such duties, functions and powers 
having been delegated to him by the Designated Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption either generally or on an investigation specific 
basis with the approval of the Commission.
(6) Where the Designated Officer of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption is unable 
to perform duties and powers under this Act due to illness, 
incapacity or any other reason, the Deputy Designated 
Officer of such Commission shall be entitled to perform the 
Designated Officers duties, functions and powers for a period 
not exceeding seven days, notwithstanding the absence of 
general or specific delegation.


---- PAGE 0050 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
48
(7) Where there exists a vacancy in the post of Director-
General of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption and the President acting in terms of 
subsection (2) of section 25 of the Anti-Corruption Act has 
empowered any other officer of the Commission to perform 
the duties and functions of the Director-General, such other 
officer during the pendency of such empowerment shall be 
entitled to perform the functions of the Designated officer of 
the Commission in the manner provided in this Act.
48. The Police Designated Officer and the Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption shall – 
	 (a)	 regularly discuss and agree on the manner in 
which mutual cooperation may be extended 
between their respective institutions towards 
effectively achieving the objectives of this Act; 
	 (b)	  at a minimum of once in two months, jointly 
chair a meeting of Investigation Officers to 
discuss and agree on effective enforcement of 
provisions of this Act, and the manner in which 
the objectives of this Act may be achieved; 
	 (c)	 at a minimum of once in six months, jointly chair 
a meeting of the principal executive officers of 
public and statutory institutions which in terms 
of this Act are required to submit information 
pertaining to suspected proceeds of crime, to 
ensure that information specified in this Act is 
received;  
	 (d)	 develop and enforce-
Functions to 
be discharged 
by Designated 
Officers jointly


---- PAGE 0051 ----

49
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
(i)	
pre-restraint and pre-seizure planning 
protocols to be applied by Investigation 
Officers prior to restraining and seizing 
suspected proceeds of crime; and 
	
(ii)	
protection, preservation and management 
protocols following seizure of suspected 
proceeds of crime, pending an order for 
protection, preservation and management 
being made by the High Court; 
	 (e)	 at a minimum of once in six months, conduct 
a meeting with the Authority regarding the 
effective enforcement of the provisions of this 
Act; and
	 (f)	 prepare and submit to Parliament an Annual 
Report setting out the manner in which the two 
institutions have given effect to provisions of 
this Act and achieved the objectives of this Act 
and publish such annual report in their respective 
websites.
  49. (1) The duties, functions and powers of a Designated 
Officer under this Act shall be to-
	 (a)	 supervise the conduct of investigations into 
suspected proceeds of crime;
 
	 (b)	 supervise the conduct of investigations into the 
committing of offences under this Act;
	 (c)	 provide necessary direction to the Investigation 
Officer conducting such investigations and assign 
necessary resources for such investigations;
Duties, functions 
and powers of 
a Designated 
Officer


---- PAGE 0052 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
50
	 (d)	 receive information pertaining to proceeds of 
crime submitted by institutions referred to in this 
Act; 
	 (e)	 authorize the issuing of seizing orders;
	 (f)	 authorize the filing of action in the High Court to 
obtain judicial freezing orders;
	 (g)	 provide training to Investigation Officers 
regarding the objectives of this Act, duties, 
functions and powers of Investigation Officers, 
and methodologies to be adopted in the conduct 
of investigations including special investigative 
techniques;
	 (h)	 obtain advice from the Attorney-General 
pertaining to the performance of duties and 
functions, the exercise of powers and any other 
matter under this Act; 
	 (i)	 obtain the assistance of the Attorney-General 
with regard to court proceedings under this 
Act including making applications for judicial 
freezing and forfeiture of proceeds of crime;
	 (j)	 obtain the assistance of the Attorney-General for 
the presentation of requests for mutual assistance 
pertaining to investigations into proceeds of 
crime from competent authorities of other 
jurisdictions and to represent the Designated 
Officer before foreign judicial, administrative, 
and law enforcement authorities;
	 (k)	 obtain or procure the professional services 
of any local or foreign competent person, 


---- PAGE 0053 ----

51
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
institution or organization pertaining to money 
flow investigations, financial analysis, forensic 
accounting, forensic auditing, accessing of 
commercial data bases, tracing, identification, 
search, and examination of property suspected 
to be or containing proceeds of crime;
	 (l)	 receive and process requests from foreign 
competent authorities pertaining to suspected 
proceeds of crime situated in Sri Lanka;
	 (m)	 disseminate requests to foreign competent 
authorities pertaining to proceeds of unlawful 
activities committed in Sri Lanka believed to be 
located overseas;
	 (n)	 maintain individually or in collaboration with the 
other Designated Officer a database containing 
information and statistics relating to action taken 
in terms of this Act towards the achieving of the 
objectives of this Act, and such information 
shall include properties under investigation, 
search of premises, tracing and locating of 
suspected proceeds of crime,  imposition of 
preservation orders, seizures, judicial freezing of 
suspected proceeds of crime, institution of post-
conviction and non - conviction based forfeiture 
proceedings and their outcome, arrest, remand, 
bail and prosecution of offenders.
(2) The duties, functions and powers of a Designated 
Officer specified in subsection (1) shall not derogate a Police 
Officer in his capacity as a Designated Officer under this Act 
from the duties, powers and functions as conferred on him 
by the Police Ordinance and the Code of Criminal Procedure 
Act. 


---- PAGE 0054 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
52
(3) The duties, functions and powers of a Designated 
Officer specified in subsection (1) shall not derogate the 
Director-General of Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption in his capacity as a Designated 
Officer under this Act from his duties, powers and functions 
under the Anti-Corruption Act.
50. (1) A Police Investigating Officer shall be a police 
officer holding a rank not less than the rank of an Inspector 
of Police, who shall perform his duties, functions and powers 
conferred on him by this Act under the general supervision 
of the Police Designated Officer.
(2) An officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption appointed by such 
Commission in consultation with the Director-General 
of that Commission shall be an Investigation Officer for 
the purposes of this Act, and he shall perform his duties, 
functions and powers conferred on him by this Act with the 
approval of the Designated Officer.  
51. (1) An Investigation Officer shall have the duty and 
power to conduct investigations into the following: -
	 (a)	 suspected proceeds of crime;
	 (b)	 if in the course of an investigation into suspected 
proceeds of crime, information relating to the 
unlawful activity that yielded the proceeds of 
crime transpires, conduct investigation into such 
unlawful activity;
	 (c)	 committing of offences contained in this Act.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall 
prevent a law enforcement officer who is duly authorized 
Investigation 
Officers 
Duties and 
powers of 
Investigation 
Officer


---- PAGE 0055 ----

53
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
by law to conduct an investigation into the committing of an 
unlawful activity.
(3) Any investigation into unlawful activities which 
constitute offences under the Anti-Corruption Act shall be 
conducted only by authorized officers of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, unless such 
unlawful activity comes within the investigative purview of 
the Police as well.
(4) If in the course of an investigation conducted by a 
Police Investigation Officer into suspected proceeds of crime, 
information relating to the committing of an offence under 
the Anti-Corruption Act transpires, it shall be the duty of such 
Police Investigation Officer to transmit such information 
promptly to the Director-General of the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption through the 
Police Designated Officer.
(5) If in the course of an investigation conducted by 
an Investigation Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption into suspected 
proceeds of crime, information relating to the committing 
of an offence which comes within the investigative purview 
of Police transpires, it shall be the duty of such Investigation 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption to transmit such information promptly 
to the Police Designated Officer through the Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption.
(6) When a matter is referred to the Police Designated 
Officer by the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 


---- PAGE 0056 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
54
Bribery or Corruption, it shall be the duty of the Police 
Designated Officer to cause the conduct of investigations 
into such alleged offence and take necessary further action 
in terms of this Act.
(7) When a matter is referred to the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption by the Police 
Designated Officer, it shall be the duty of the Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption to cause the conduct of investigation 
into alleged offence and to take necessary further action in 
terms of this Act.
(8) For the purpose of conducting investigations into 
the committing of unlawful activities, it shall be lawful for 
the Investigation Officer to use powers of investigations 
contained in this Act, in addition to the generality of powers 
of investigations vested in such Investigation Officer 
contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and the 
Police Ordinance or the Anti-Corruption Act as the case may 
be. 
(9) The duties, functions and powers of an Investigation 
Officer specified in this section shall not derogate the duties, 
powers and functions of a Police Investigation Officer 
conferred on him by the Police Ordinance and the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act.
(10) The duties, functions and powers of an Investigation 
Officer specified in this section shall not derogate the 
duties, functions and powers of an Investigation Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, from his duties, powers and functions under the 
Anti-Corruption Act.


---- PAGE 0057 ----

55
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
 PART II
Investigation Into Proceeds of Crime, 
Restraint And Seizure
52. Subject to any administrative directions that may be 
given by a Designated Officer, an Investigation Officer may 
commence an investigation under this Act into suspected 
proceeds of crime, in one of the following ways:-
	 (a)	 where in the course of an investigation conducted 
by himself or by any other person authorized 
by law to conduct an investigation into the 
committing of an unlawful activity, suspicion 
arises that any property is proceeds of crime of 
such unlawful activity;
	 (b)	 upon the receipt of a report from an intelligence 
agency relating to suspected proceeds of crime;
	 (c)	 upon the receipt of information provided by a 
person who has discharged his statutory duty 
in terms of this Act to provide information 
pertaining to proceeds of crime;
	 (d)	 upon the receipt of a complaint or a petition 
from any person relating to proceeds of crime;
	 (e)	 upon receipt of an order of a court of law to 
conduct an investigation into suspected proceeds 
of crime;
	 (f)	 on the advice of the Attorney-General that an 
investigation in terms of this Act be conducted;
	 (g)	 where an Investigation Officer or a Designated 
The manner 
in which an 
investigation into 
suspected proceeds 
of crime may 
commence


---- PAGE 0058 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
56
Officer based on information or material 
available, forms a view that suspicion exist 
for him to be of the opinion that an identified 
property is proceeds of crime;
	 (h)	 based on a report submitted to the Police 
Designated Officer by the Director-General 
of the Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption relating to suspected 
proceeds of crime believed to have been derived 
by the committing of an unlawful activity 
which in terms of the Anti-Corruption Act does 
not come within the investigative purview of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption;
	 (i)	 based on a report submitted to the Director-
General of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption by the 
Police Designated Officer relating to suspected 
proceeds of crime believed to have been derived 
by the committing of an unlawful activity 
which comes within the investigative purview 
of the Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption in terms of the Anti-
Corruption Act;
	 (j)	 on a report submitted to the Police Designated 
Officer or the Designated Officer of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption by any other law 
enforcement authority pertaining to suspected 
proceeds of crime derived out of the committing 
of any unlawful activity which comes within 
the investigative purview of the Police or the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of 


---- PAGE 0059 ----

57
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Bribery or Corruption or such law enforcement 
authority, as the case may be;
	 (k)	 on a report or information submitted to either 
the Police Designated Officer or the Designated 
Officer of Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption by –
	
(i)	
a 
legislative, 
executive, 
judicial, 
regulatory, supervisory or administrative 
authority of a foreign country;
 
	
(ii)	
law enforcement or intelligence agency of 
a foreign country;
	
(iii)	 an international, regional, or multilateral 
organization or agency; or 
	
(iv)	 by 
a 
mechanism 
or 
organization 
established under an international or 
regional arrangement to which Sri Lanka 
is party to;
	 (l)	 following the receipt of a request from a foreign 
law enforcement authority including a request 
under the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters 
Act;
	 (m)	 based on a report received from the International 
Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL);
	 (n)	 following the receipt of a suspicious transaction 
report or other report or communication from 
the Financial Intelligence Unit;
	 (o)	 on a report including an interim report from a 
Commission of Inquiry appointed under the 


---- PAGE 0060 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
58
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) or 
from a Commission appointed under the Special 
Presidential Commissions of Inquiry Law, No. 7 
of 1978;
	 (p)	 on information provided in terms of this Act by 
a person who has been vested with the duty to 
provide information;
	 (q)	 on the receipt of a report or a communication 
by Parliament or a committee thereof which 
discloses reasonable grounds to believe that a 
particular property is proceeds of crime;
	 (r)	 upon a report from the Public Service 
commission;
	 (s)	 on a report from the National Police Commission;
	 (t)	 based on a report of or a communication from 
the Auditor-General;
	 (u)	 on a report from a lawfully established 
disciplinary body;
	 (v)	 on a report of the Director (Bank supervision) 
appointed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 
1988;
	 (w)	 on a report of the Director (Non-Banking 
Financial supervision of the central Bank of Sri 
Lanka) appointed under the Finance Business 
Act, No. 42 of 2011;
	 (x)	 on a report of National Gem and Jewellery 
Authority established under the National Gem 
and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993;


---- PAGE 0061 ----

59
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (y)	 on a report or information submitted by any 
other person conferred with a duty under this Act 
to provide information pertaining to proceeds of 
crime;
	 (z)	 on a report or information submitted by the 
principal investigation officer who has conducted 
either wholly or partly an investigation of 
an offence under the Prevention of Offences 
relating to Sports Act, No. 24 of 2019;
	
(aa)	 on a report or information submitted by any 
Organization recognized as a National Sports 
Association in terms of the Sports Law, No.25 
of 1973;
	
(bb)	 on a report by any Local Authority, the Urban 
Development Authority established under the 
Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 
1978 or the Construction Industry Development 
Authority established under the Construction 
Industry Development Authority Act, No. 33 
of 2014 and the Condominium Management 
Authority established under the Apartment 
Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973; and
	
(cc)	 upon any observation of a Designated Officer or 
an Investigation Officer regarding the existence 
of proceeds of crime, or such observation by any 
peace officer which is conveyed by such peace 
officer to a Designated Officer or an Investigation 
Officer.


---- PAGE 0062 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
60
53. (1) Upon receipt of an information in any one of 
the ways specified in section 52, the Investigation Officer 
shall, where necessary, take steps to conduct a fact finding. 
The objective of conducting a fact finding shall be the 
determination of the veracity of the information received in 
any one of the ways specified under section 52: 
Provided however, if upon an examination of the 
information received in the ways specified under section 52, 
any observation of a Designated Officer or an Investigation 
Officer regarding the existence of proceeds  of crime or the 
receipt of any observation regarding the existence of proceeds 
of crime by a Peace Officer conveyed to a Designated Officer 
or an Investigation Officer which the latter shall deemed to 
be credible, the Investigation Officer has reasonable grounds 
to believe the truth of the information contained therein, he 
may without conducting a fact finding, for such reasons to 
be recorded, commence the conduct of an investigation as 
provided in this Act: 
Provided however, the commencement of such 
investigation shall be subject to subsection (4) of this section: 
 
Provided further, if the information received in the 
ways specified under section 52 reveals reasonable grounds 
for the Investigation Officer to believe the identity and the 
location of proceeds of crime, it shall not be necessary for 
the Investigation Officer to conduct investigations under this 
section to validate the facts, trace and identify the property, 
or conduct investigations, as stated herein before, and shall 
be entitled to take necessary action to - 
	
	 (a)	 serve a notice calling for explanation; 
	 (b)	 restrain the use of the property, issue a direction 
for the preservation of the property; or
The manner of 
conducting an 
investigation 
under this Act


---- PAGE 0063 ----

61
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c)	 seize such property, 
as provided under this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, a ‘fact finding’ shall 
mean a preliminary examination of available information 
and material, and engaging in a process of verification 
of the information received in the ways specified under 
section 52, without conducting any activity that would 
have the effect of infringing any rights of any person for 
the purpose of determining whether the information 
contained therein is credible and relates to proceeds of crime.
(3) An Investigation Officer conducting a fact finding 
under this Act shall for the purpose of verification of the 
information received in the ways specified under section 52, 
be entitled to exercise any power of investigation provided 
in this Act in a manner that would not infringe any right 
or privilege of any person recognized by written law:
Provided however, a fact finding shall not be 
conducted in a manner that would adversely affect the 
conduct of legitimate trade, commerce, financial activity or 
any profession or occupation.
(4) Upon the completion of the fact finding referred to 
in subsection (1), the Investigation Officer shall consult the 
Designated Officer for the purpose of determining -
	 (a)	 whether it would be necessary to commence the 
conduct of an investigation into the suspected 
proceeds of crime; and
	 (b)	 whether the monetary value of the suspected 
proceeds of crime will be sufficiently high so 
as to justify and necessitate the conduct of an 


---- PAGE 0064 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
62
investigation into the suspected proceeds of 
crime under this Act; and
  
the determination arrived at shall be recorded. The reasons 
for such determinations shall be recorded and signed by both 
the Investigation Officer and the corresponding Designated 
Officer. 
(5) Where upon verification, the information or part 
thereof received in any one of the ways specified under 
section 52 is found to be credible and that it relates to 
proceeds of crime, and therefore the commencement of an 
investigation under this Act is necessary, an Investigation 
Officer shall subject to the approval of and general or special 
directions issued by such Designated Officer, commence 
and conduct an investigation under this Act: 
Provided however, where, given the attendant 
circumstances, obtaining the prior approval of the Designated 
Officer may not be practicable or may defeat the objectives 
of this Act, an Investigation Officer may for reasons to be 
recorded, on his own motion commence the investigation 
and thereafter as soon as possible obtain approval of the 
Designated Officer. 
(6) Upon a report being presented to the Designated 
Officer by an Investigation Officer under this section, he 
may approve or refuse to approve the commencement of 
an investigation. Where the Designated Officer refuses to 
approve the commencement of an investigation, he shall 
record reasons therefor, and if he is the Police Designated 
Officer submit to the Inspector General of Police a report 
in respect of such decision not to approve the conduct of an 
investigation. Where the Designated Officer be the Director-
General of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption, he shall submit such report to the 
Commission.


---- PAGE 0065 ----

63
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(7) Where necessary, the Investigation Officer shall take 
steps to trace and identify the property which is believed to 
be proceeds of crime. 
54.  Following the commencement of an investigation 
under this Act, an Investigation Officer shall have the 
following powers of investigation: -
	 (a)	 require any person believed to be acquainted 
with information or any fact relating to suspected 
proceeds of crime including the committing of 
an unlawful activity, to answer questions put 
to him by such Investigation Officer, and to 
provide a written statement on matters specified 
by such Investigation Officer;
	 (b)	 video record the conduct of an interview with 
any person and the making of his statement; 
	 (c)	 issue notice in terms of section 68 of this Act, 
and call for any information to facilitate the 
conduct of an investigation into suspected 
proceeds of crime;
	 (d)	 take steps that may be necessary for the 
identification, tracing, recovery and examination 
of suspected proceeds of crime; 
	 (e)	 provide necessary protection and preservation to 
restrained, seized or frozen proceeds of crime; 
	 (f)	 conduct of financial analysis including analysis 
that may involve the use of specialized digital 
and other programmes; 
Powers of 
Investigation of 
an Investigation 
Officer


---- PAGE 0066 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
64
	 (g)	 obtain a valuation of suspected proceeds of 
crime;
	 (h)	 obtain a certified copy of a declaration of assets 
and liabilities submitted in terms of the Anti- 
Corruption Act;
	 (i)	 examine and take into custody documents, 
material and information contained in any file, 
record, digital storage device or in any other 
location, believed to contain material, data and 
information pertaining to proceeds of crime 
being investigated into.
  55. (1) Following the commencement of an investigation 
under this Act, an Investigation Officer shall with the sanction 
of the Designated Officer have the power to :-
	 (a)	 as provided in the subsequent provisions of this 
Act, restrain any person from using or transacting 
with a property and requiring any person to 
preserve such property which the Investigation 
Officer has reasonable grounds to suspect to be 
proceeds of crime in a manner specified by him 
in a written restraining order;
	 (b)	 to issue a restraining and preservation order, 
on any person having possession of, dominion, 
custody or control over proceeds of crime, which 
shall contain a direction of what action in respect 
of such property has been restrained;
	 (c)	 as provided in the subsequent provisions of this 
Act, seize any property which the Investigation 
Officer has reasonable grounds to suspect to be 
proceeds of crime:
Powers of 
Investigation of 
an Investigation 
Officer with 
the sanction of 
the Designated 
Officer


---- PAGE 0067 ----

65
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
	 	
Provided however, prior to seizing any 
suspected proceeds of crime, the Investigation 
Officer shall consider-
	
(i)	
the approximate monetary value of 
the suspected proceeds of crime;
 
	
(ii)	
whether that value exceeds the value 
specified by the Authority as being 
the minimum value of the property 
that may be seized; and 
	
(iii)	 whether it would be economically 
viable to protect, preserve and 
manage the seized property, pending 
an order for protection, preservation 
and management being obtained from 
the High Court: 
	
	 	
Provided 
further, 
notwithstanding 
the value of the property to be seized being 
minimal or less than the amount specified by 
the Authority, if the Investigation Officer in 
consultation with the Designated Officer forms 
the opinion that public interest demands the 
seizure of the suspected proceeds of crime, the 
Investigation Officer shall for reasons to be 
recorded in that regard, seize such property in 
terms of this Act;     
	 (d)	 take possession of seized proceeds of crime;
	 (e)	 apply for, obtain, serve and enforce a judicial 
freezing order relating to a restrained or seized 
proceeds of crime; 
	 (f)	 conduct an investigation into proceeds of crime 
either jointly or with the assistance of a local or 
foreign law enforcement authority; 


---- PAGE 0068 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
66
	 (g)	 request the Attorney-General to consider the 
institution of proceedings for judicial freezing 
or forfeiture of suspected proceeds of crime; and
	 (h)	 conduct or cause the conduct of surveillance 
through intelligence gathering agencies of the Sri 
Lanka Police and gather information pertaining 
to – 
	
(i)	
suspected proceeds of crime;
 
	
(ii)	
committing of an unlawful activity;
	
(iii)	 transactions 
pertaining 
to 
suspected 
proceeds of crime; and 
	
(iv)	 the possession, dominion, custody, control 
and use of suspected proceeds of crime.   
(2) Where surveillance under paragraph (h) of subsection 
(1) involves -
	 (a)	 interception of private communication with or 
without recording;
 	(b)	 digital surveillance within private premises of a 
person under surveillance; or 
	 (c)	 any other surveillance, which would relate to 
the personal life of any person, which is not in 
public, 
such surveillance shall be conducted only with the prior 
authorization obtained from the Magistrate to whom the 
commencement or the conduct of the investigation has 
already been reported and if no such report has been 


---- PAGE 0069 ----

67
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
presented, to the Magistrate having territorial jurisdiction of 
the place of such surveillance: 
Provided however, if based on grounds of urgency or 
for grounds beyond the control of the Investigation Officer, 
obtaining the prior authorization from the Magistrate may 
defeat the objectives of this Act, having the reasons for 
taking such action be recorded contemporaneously by the 
Investigation Officer, the surveillance may be carried out 
without obtaining such prior authorization: 
Provided further such Investigation Officer shall notify 
the relevant Magistrate by a confidential communication 
within twenty four hours of the conduct of such surveillance. 
(3) An application for the authorization of the Magistrate 
for surveillance under subsection (2) shall be made by 
a confidential application in that regard, which shall be 
considered by the Magistrate in ex-parte and in-camera 
proceedings. The Magistrate shall take every reasonable 
step to hold such application and the order made in that 
regard in confidence.
(4) The Magistrate shall prior to granting authorization 
for surveillance under subsection (2) consider the legality, 
necessity and justification based on the principle of 
proportionality for such investigative measure to be carried 
out.
  56. (1) Following the commencement of an investigation 
under this Act, an Investigation Officer shall, subject 
to compliance with administrative directions, have the 
entitlement to make a confidential application to the 
Magistrate’s Court having territorial jurisdiction to the 
relevant location where the suspected proceeds of crime 
are believed to be located or where such location is 
Judicial 
authorization 
to conduct the 
investigations


---- PAGE 0070 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
68
outside Sri Lanka or unknown to the Investigation Officer 
to the Magistrate’s Court of Colombo, and following an 
ex-parte in-camera hearing, be entitled to obtain a 
Magisterial authorization or order to facilitate the conduct 
of the investigations.
(2) Upon the receipt of an application from an 
Investigation Officer under this section, the Magistrate shall 
in-camera and in ex-parte proceedings forthwith consider the 
application, and upon being satisfied that the granting of the 
authorization shall be necessary to realize the objectives of 
the Act, grant such authorization or issue an order subject 
where necessary to any conditions which the Magistrate 
shall deem necessary. 
57. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 56, an 
Investigation Officer shall have the power to enter, search 
and examine and where necessary take possession of any 
premises, location, facility, network, digital data storage 
device, any other property or thing, or person for the tracing, 
location, identification or ascertaining the nature and the 
existence of suspected proceeds of crime and its connection 
with the committing of any unlawful activity:
Provided however, if based on grounds of urgency or 
for grounds beyond the control of the Investigation Officer 
obtaining the prior authorization from the Magistrate may 
defeat the objectives of this Act, having the reasons for 
taking such action be recorded contemporaneously by the 
Investigation Officer, the search may be carried out without 
obtaining such prior authorization. Such Investigation 
Officer shall report the conduct of such search to the relevant 
Magistrate, within twenty four hours of the conduct of such 
search. 
Entry, Search 
and Examine


---- PAGE 0071 ----

69
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) It shall be the duty of any person having control, 
possession or dominion of any premises, location, facility, 
network, digital data storage device, any other property or 
thing, or person, to permit an Investigation Officer exercising 
the power of search in terms of this section and to facilitate 
such search.
(3) If entry or access into any premises, location, facility, 
network, digital data storage device, any other property 
or thing, or  access to a person is not possible or has been 
obstructed, it shall be lawful for an Investigation Officer 
exercising the power of search to take necessary measures 
which may include the use of necessary force, to gain entry or 
access into such premises, location, facility, network, digital 
data storage device, any other property or thing, or person 
for the purpose of searching such premises or location. 
  58.  Subject to the provisions of section 56, an investigation 
officer shall have the power to:-
	 (a)	 obtain details pertaining to banking relationships 
including bank accounts, deposits, loans, other 
facilities and other similar banking instruments, 
and information relating to the use of online 
banking facilities;
	 (b)	 obtain details pertaining to financial instruments 
or products and services from any other 
financial institution or designated non-financial 
businesses and professions or virtual assets 
service provider;
	 (c)	 obtain details relating to access and the use 
and carrying out of transactions pertaining to 
or using crypto currency, bitcoins, block chain 
transactions and other similar transactions using 
digital media;   
Power to 
obtain information


---- PAGE 0072 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
70
	 (d)	 obtain details pertaining to financial instruments 
or products and services from any financial 
institution unregistered and non-regulated;
	 (e)	 obtain details pertaining to virtual trading such 
as forex, futures and commodity trading;
	 (f)	 obtain copies of and information contained in 
declarations made to the Commissioner-General 
of Inland Revenue;
	 (g)	 obtain copies of and information contained in 
and relating to declarations made to the Director-
General of Customs;
	 (h)	 obtain declarations and information provided to 
the Registrar General or to the Registrar General 
of titles; 
	 (i)	 obtain copies of deeds and other conveyances 
filed in land or title registries; 
	 (j)	 obtain information available at the head of the 
department of foreign exchange;
	 (k)	 obtain telephone and mobile phone call records, 
transmission details, call termination details, use 
of digital data services, traffic data, access to 
internet portals and gateways; 
	 (l)	 obtain details pertaining to equity ownership, 
share and other equity transactions; 
	 (m)	 obtain the extraction of data and information 
from any digital device including digital data 
storage devices:


---- PAGE 0073 ----

71
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
	 Provided however, it shall be lawful for an 
Investigation Officer to take custody of such 
device and retain it until obtaining a Magisterial 
order;
	 (n)	 obtain a direction on any person who is believed 
to possess the username and password or any 
other information to gain access to a digital 
device, digitized application, website, server, or 
any other cyber or networked environment; 
	 (o)	 take steps necessary to unencrypt any digital 
device or digital storage or to break or bypass its 
access codes; 
	 (p)	 require any principal or chief executive officer 
of any institution or any other person of such 
institution to notwithstanding any provision 
of any law, contractual or other obligation 
that demand such institution or other person 
to maintain confidentiality relating to data and 
information that they may have in possession or 
to which they have access to provide - 
	
(i) 	
such information; 
	
(ii) 	 certified copy of documents, files and 
registers; or
	
(iii) 	 any digital device, 
	
	
to the investigation officer;
	 (q)	 obtain any information sought directly by an 
Investigation Officer and not made available to 
him by the person possessing such information 
or material;  


---- PAGE 0074 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
72
	 (r)	 obtain an order on any person not referred to 
above to provide any data or information in such 
form and manner as may be specified in such 
order including a certified copy of any existing 
document or any other information not referred 
to above which may be necessary for the conduct 
of investigations;
	 (s)	 access any public or private repository of 
data and information relating to any property, 
and information relating to persons claiming 
ownership, 
possession, 
having 
custody, 
dominion or control over such property.
59. (1) Where an Investigation Officer is satisfied -
	 (a)	 that any information or data stored in any 
electronic device is reasonably required for the 
purposes of an investigation under this Act; and
	 (b)	 that there is a risk that such information or data 
may be lost, destroyed, modified or rendered 
inaccessible,
such Investigation Officer may by written notice require the 
person in control of such electronic device to ensure that 
the information or data be preserved for such a period not 
exceeding thirty days as may be specified in such notice.
(2) On an application made to a Magistrate, the period 
for which the information or data is to be preserved may be 
extended for such further period.
Preservation of
information


---- PAGE 0075 ----

73
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
  60. (1) An investigation officer shall have the power to 
conduct the following special investigative techniques 
subject to the judicial authorization from a Magistrate as 
specified in section 56 :-
	 (a)	 controlled delivery;
	 (b)	 digital 
surveillance 
which 
includes 
the 
interception and recording of digital, voice, 
video communication;
	 (c)	 undercover operations including those involving 
the use of decoys; 
	 (d)	 laying of traps; and
	 (e)	 forensic extraction of data, information and 
images, from computers, mobile phones, 
digital data storage devices, and other digital 
equipment.  
(2) Upon the receipt of an application as afore-stated 
from an Investigation Officer the Magistrate shall without 
delay consider the said application and upon being satisfied 
grant authorization for the conduct of necessary special 
investigations. Where necessary the Magistrate may in the 
interest of justice impose conditions to be complied with. 
(3) The Magistrate shall prior to granting authorization 
for the conduct of a special investigative technique consider 
the necessity and justification for its conduct based on the 
principle of proportionality for such investigative technique 
to be carried out.
(4) Following the obtaining of authorization as referred 
to above, the Investigation Officer shall once in fourteen 
Judicial 
authorization 
for special 
investigative 
techniques


---- PAGE 0076 ----

Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
74
days report progress of such investigation using the special 
investigative technique for which authorization has been 
obtained to the relevant Magistrate.  
   
61. An investigation officer shall have the power to 
obtain a judicial order on any person requiring to conduct 
any activity that may be necessary for the conduct of 
investigations into suspected proceeds of crime, including 
the conduct of-
	 (a)	 a forensic audit; 
	 (b)	 digital 
forensic 
extraction 
of 
data 
and 
information;
	 (c)	 valuation of the property;
	 (d)	 copying and storage of data and information in 
digital storage devices; 
	 (e)	 forensic analysis of any transaction relating to 
property; and
	 (f)	 any other activity that is necessary to achieve 
the objectives of this Act: 
Provided however, where such activity is directed 
to be conducted by a private party, the Magistrate shall in 
consultation with the relevant service provider determine 
fees to be payable and require the relevant law enforcement 
authority to pay such fees.
62. Where a Designated Officer has obtained or procured 
the professional services of local or foreign competent 
person or an institution or  organization pertaining to money 
flow investigations, financial analysis, forensic accounting, 
forensic auditing, accessing of commercial data bases, 
Judicial order 
on any person to 
conduct activity 
necessary for 
investigations
Professional 
services may 
be used for 
investigations


---- PAGE 0077 ----

75
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
tracing, identification, search, and examination of property 
suspected to be or containing proceeds of crime, it shall be 
lawful for an Investigation Officer to act upon the material 
and information collected through such process for the 
purposes of –
	 (a) 	carrying out further investigations;
	 (b) 	forming an opinion regarding property under 
investigation; and
	 (c) 	taking any action in terms of this Act.
63. (1) An Investigation Officer shall, for the 
purpose of achieving the objectives of this Act, 
conduct further investigations, and shall in particular-
	 (a)	 take necessary steps to identify, search, trace, 
recover and examine the suspected proceeds of 
crime; 
	 (b)	 determine whether the identified property or part 
thereof is proceeds of crime or has been derived 
out of the committing of an unlawful activity; 
	 (c)	 collect evidence relating to the committing of 
such unlawful activity, including the identity 
of the person who committed such unlawful 
activity;
	 (d)	 collect evidence relating to both the past and 
present possession, custody, control, use and 
dominion of the property;  	
Further 
investigations


---- PAGE 0078 ----

76
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (e) identify the person who may have beneficial 
interest in such property;
	 (f) determine the unlawful activity which yielded 
the identified proceeds of crime;
	 (g) determine the nature and the approximate value 
of such property;
	 (h) ascertain any information as may be necessary to 
cause the restraint, seizure and judicial freezing 
of such property;
	 (i) gather such other and further information as 
may be necessary to achieve the objectives of 
this Act; and
	 (j) take such further action as may be necessary to 
achieve the objectives of this Act. 
(2)   For the purposes of achieving the objectives set-out 
in subsection (1), an Investigation Officer shall be entitled 
to exercise the powers of investigation vested on him under 
this Act.
(3) Where at any point of time reasonable grounds exist 
that a property being investigated into is proceeds of crime, 
steps with regard to the restraint, preservation or seizure of 
such property as provided in this Act may be carried out by an 
Investigation Officer notwithstanding further investigations 
as provided in subsection (1) not been completed.
64. The objectives of conducting any investigation 
or further investigation as provided in this Act, shall 
inter-alia be –
Objectives of 
conducting 
investigation 
and further 
investigation


---- PAGE 0079 ----

77
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (a) to determine whether the property being 
investigated into is proceeds of crime;
	 (b) to determine whether any offence as contained 
in this Act pertaining to such property has been 
committed, and if so to identify the person who 
committed such offence and to gather evidence 
for the prosecution of such offender; and
	 (c) for the purpose of identifying the unlawful 
activity which yielded such property and 
gathering evidence relating to such unlawful 
activity that may enable successful prosecution 
of judicial proceedings for the forfeiture of such 
proceeds of crime.
65. (1) An investigation into suspected proceeds of 
crime may continue notwithstanding the seizure or judicial 
freezing of such suspected proceeds of crime. 
(2) An Investigation Officer conducting an investigation 
in terms of this Act shall be entitled to take into consideration 
and act upon material and information contained in notes of 
investigations pertaining to an investigation conducted with 
regard to the committing of any unlawful activity.
(3) A Police Investigation Officer shall be entitled to take 
into consideration and act upon material and information 
contained in notes of investigation pertaining to an 
investigation conducted in whole or part by the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption into an 
offence contained in Anti-Corruption Act:
Provided however, he shall make an application for 
such notes of investigation through the Police Designated 
Officer who shall convey such request to the Designated 
General 
provisions relating 
to investigations


---- PAGE 0080 ----

78
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption. Upon receipt of a request from the 
Police Designated Officer, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in Anti-corruption Act, the Designated Officer of 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption shall make available the required material to the 
Police Designated Officer.
(4) The Police Designated Officer and the Police 
Investigation Officer shall be obliged to maintain 
confidentiality relating to information contained in material 
so received unless for the purpose of giving effect to the 
provisions of this Act. 
(5) The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery 
or Corruption and its officers who are empowered to act in 
terms of this Act shall if made available or received through 
lawful means notes of investigations relating to investigations 
conducted in terms of this Act by a Police Investigation 
Officer take into consideration and act upon information and 
material contained in the said notes of investigations with 
or without any further investigations being conducted by 
an Investigation  Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
(6) It shall be lawful for the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption and the Designated 
Officer of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption to act in terms of this Act and make 
applications for forfeiture of proceeds of crime based on a 
consideration of the said material and where necessary on 
any further material that may be collected in the course of 
any further investigations conducted by the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.  


---- PAGE 0081 ----

79
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, 
where in the course of an investigation into any offence 
being conducted in terms of any other law, a police officer 
conducting such investigation or any other police officer 
acting on the instructions of such officer conducting the 
investigation, finds in the course of such investigation the 
proceeds of such offence, he shall have the power to seize 
such proceeds of crime, and take action in terms of this Act 
or deal with such property in terms of any such other law 
under which such investigation was being conducted.
Example-
	
A police officer who receives information regarding an instance 
of theft commences the conduct of an investigation in to such 
theft in terms of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the 
course of the investigation during the conduct of a search he 
locates property which he has reasonable grounds to believe is 
proceeds of committing theft. Notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in this Act, he shall be entitled to take action in terms of 
Code of Criminal Procedure Act to take such property into his 
possession and take further action in terms of the law.
(8) It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General, the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, a Designated Officer and an Investigation Officer 
to take into consideration and act upon any information 
and material contained in proceedings of inquiry and 
investigations conducted by a Commission appointed 
under Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Law 
No. 7 of 1978 or a Commission of Inquiry appointed under 
Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) so far as such 
information or material relates  to proceeds of an unlawful 
activity.


---- PAGE 0082 ----

80
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(9) Subject  to necessary authorization that may have to be 
obtained from the competent authorities of a foreign country 
and subject to administrative approval, an Investigation 
Officer shall be entitled to carry out the entire or part of an 
investigation under this Act in a foreign country. For such 
purpose, an Investigation Officer may obtain the assistance 
of a law enforcement officer of such foreign country. 
(10) Where a law enforcement officer of a foreign country 
provides assistance to an Investigation Officer and therefor 
conducts any investigation pertaining to suspected proceeds 
of crime, it shall be deemed that such investigation or part 
thereof was conducted by an Investigation Officer, and 
evidence may be presented in judicial proceedings founded 
upon material collected by such foreign law enforcement 
officer. 
Clarification:
For the purpose of obtaining the assistance of a foreign law 
enforcement officer in the conduct of an investigation in a 
foreign country, an Investigation Officer need not have been 
present in such foreign country when the relevant part of the 
investigation was being conducted.    
(11) The Designated Officers and Investigation Officers 
of Sri Lanka Police and the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption shall take appropriate 
measures for the protection and preservation of information 
and other material received by such officers under this Act and 
gathered in the course of an investigation. Such information 
and material shall be used only under the provisions of this 
Act for the purposes set out in the Act.    


---- PAGE 0083 ----

81
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
66. A Designated Officer or an Investigation Officer may 
take any other appropriate steps not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Act to achieve the objectives of this Act 
and to facilitate the carrying out of the powers and functions 
vested in such officers under this Act or by any other written 
law.
67. As regards matters of procedure for which special 
provisions have not been made by this Act or by any other 
law for the time being in force, such procedure as the justice 
of the case may require and as is not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Act may be followed.
68. (1) If upon the information available pertaining 
to suspected proceeds of crime, and where necessary, 
following a fact finding or an investigation, if  there is 
reasonable grounds to believe that an identified property is 
proceeds of crime, an Investigation Officer may following a 
contemporaneous recording of reasons and with the approval 
of the corresponding Designated Officer, serve on-
	 (a) the person having possession, custody, control, 
or dominion of such property; 
	 (b) the person who is registered or is known to 
claim, the ownership of such property; 
	 (c) any person having beneficial interests in such 
property; 
	 (d) the agent, nominee, representative, manager, 
principal officer, or attorney of the persons 
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
subsection; or
Designated 
Officer or 
Investigation 
Officer may 
take steps not 
inconsistent with 
the provisions of 
this Act
Cases not
provided for in
any other law
Notice calling for 
explanation


---- PAGE 0084 ----

82
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (e) any one of the persons set out in paragraphs (a), 
(b), (c) or (d) of this subsection,
a  notice in the form specified in Schedule I to this Act.
(2) The Notice under subsection (1) shall require the 
person to whom the Notice is served to provide accurate 
information regarding the - 
	 (a) manner in which he acquired, came into 
possession, is owning, controlling, having 
dominium or using such property;
	 (b) the lawfulness of his acquisition, possession, 
owning, controlling, having dominium or using 
such property, including the sources of the 
consideration provided for such acquisition, 
possession, control, dominium, or use; 
  
	 (c) identity of the person from whom he received 
the property and the circumstances pertaining to 
such receipt; and
	 (d) any other information pertaining to such 
property as may be specified in such notice.  
(3) Such notice shall be served for the purpose of 
obtaining explanation and information pertaining to the 
property described in such notice, and specifically for the 
purpose of ascertaining inter alia-
	
	 (a) whether the identified property is proceeds of 
crime; 
	 (b)	 whether the property has been derived out of 
the committing of one or more specific unlawful 


---- PAGE 0085 ----

83
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
activities, and if so that identity of such unlawful 
activity that yielded such proceeds of crime and 
evidence relating to such unlawful activities; 
	
	 (c) whether any person has committed an offence 
under this Act in respect of such property; 
	 (d) the identity of the person who had committed 
the corresponding unlawful activity; and 
	 (e) the evidence relating to such unlawful activity 
and the proceeds of crime.  
(4)  For the purpose of this section “serve” mean manually, 
transmitted through registered post or electronically, and 
includes situations where the acceptance was rejected by the 
recipient.
(5) Nothing in this Act shall prevent an Investigation 
Officer from serving an Order in terms of subsection (1) of 
section 71 at the time of or soon after serving a notice calling 
for explanation under subsection (1) of this section or upon 
receiving an explanatory statement under subsection (1) of 
section 69.
69. (1) Upon receipt of a notice under section 68, it shall 
be the duty of the person who receives such notice to not 
later than three working days from the receipt of such notice 
provide a true and descriptive response thereto (referred to 
in this Act as the ‘explanatory statement’) in writing in the 
form of a sworn or affirmed statement:
Provided however, the person to whom the Notice 
is served, may for sufficient reasons to be given to the 
Investigation Officer, seek in writing, and where such 
reasons are found to be bona fide, obtain a further extendable 
Explanatory 
statement


---- PAGE 0086 ----

84
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
period which shall not exceed a period of fourteen days for 
the submission of the explanatory statement:
Provided further, the Investigation Officer may in such 
circumstances issue a restraining order, in addition to other 
circumstances in which a restraining order may be issued 
under this Act for the purpose of ensuring that the objectives 
of this Act are not defeated, which shall be valid only for a 
period of seventy-two hours from the time the explanatory 
statement is received by him. 
(2) Upon receipt of the explanatory statement, the 
Investigation Officer shall consider and determine whether 
reasonable grounds exists that the property being investigated 
into is proceeds of crime. For such purpose where necessary, 
he may conduct further investigations which shall include 
interviewing and recording a statement of the person who 
submitted the explanatory statement and statements of such 
other and further persons.
(3) Where a notice under section 68 is to be served on 
a sole proprietorship, the notice shall be served on the 
proprietor. It shall be the duty of such proprietor to respond 
to such notice in the manner provided herein before. 
(4) Where notice under section 68 is to be served on a 
partnership the notice shall be served on any partner thereof 
and it shall be the duty of such partner to respond to such 
notice in the manner provided hereinbefore. Following 
compliance with such notice such partner shall obtain a 
memorandum signed by all partners of the partnership, 
ratifying the contents of the explanation provided or 
setting out their individual explanation, and submit it to 


---- PAGE 0087 ----

85
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
the Investigation Officer within three weeks. It shall be the 
duty of all partners of a partnership to either ratify the afore-
stated memorandum or provide to the relevant Investigation 
Officer his own explanation.
(5) Where notice under section 68 is to be served on 
an unincorporated body of persons, the notice shall be 
served on a principal office bearer or in the absence of such 
officer on any other office bearer thereof and it shall be the 
duty of such office bearer to respond to such notice in the 
manner provided herein before. Following compliance with 
such notice such office bearer shall obtain a memorandum 
signed by all office bearers of the unincorporated body of 
persons ratifying the contents of the explanation provided 
or setting out their individual explanation, and submit it 
to the Investigation Officer within three weeks. It shall be 
the duty of all office bearers to either ratify the afore-stated 
memorandum or provide to the relevant Investigation Officer 
his own explanation.
(6) Where notice under section 68 is to be served on an 
incorporated body of persons, the notice shall be served on the 
Managing Director or in his absence any Director thereof and 
it shall be the duty of such Director to respond to such notice 
in the manner provided herein before. Following compliance 
with such notice such Director shall obtain a memorandum 
signed by the Board of Directors of the incorporated body of 
persons ratifying the contents of the explanation provided or 
setting out their individual explanation and submit it to the 
investigation officer within three weeks. It shall be the duty 
of all Directors to either ratify the afore-stated memorandum 
or provide to the relevant Investigation Officer his own 
explanation.


---- PAGE 0088 ----

86
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
70. (1) Any person who has made a complaint, provided 
information or submitted a report to a Designated Officer or 
an Investigation Officer under any provision of this Act shall 
be provided with an acknowledgment of the receipt of such 
complaint, information, or report. 
(2) Upon a request by any person, who has made a 
complaint, provided information or submitted a report 
to a Designated Officer or an Investigation Officer under 
any provision of this Act, for information relating to the 
commencement or progression of such investigation, it 
shall be the duty of the corresponding Designated Officer 
to provide the information sought, provided the release of 
such information does not prejudice the investigation being 
conducted. The provisions of subsection (1) of section 5 of 
the Right to Information Act shall apply to any complaint, 
information, report, or investigation being conducted.
(3) Following the conduct of investigations and necessary 
further investigations as provided herein before, if the 
Designated Officer on a report by the Investigation Officer 
and upon consideration of the notes of such investigations 
conclude that reasonable grounds do not exist that the 
property investigated into is proceeds of crime, he shall for 
reasons to be recorded therefor, direct the termination of the 
conduct of investigations. Where the identity of the person 
who submitted the relevant information, complaint, petition, 
or report be known, convey to such person the decision to 
terminate investigations and reasons therefor. 
71. (1) If at any point of time, an Investigation Officer 
forms reasonable grounds for him to believe and such 
opinion is endorsed by the Designated Officer that –
	 (a) the objectives of this Act can be achieved without 
seizing such property which is reasonably 
Termination of 
investigation
The manner and 
circumstances 
of issuing 
restraining order 
or preservation 
order


---- PAGE 0089 ----

87
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
believed to be proceeds of crime or a property 
to the corresponding value of such proceeds of 
crime; and 
	 (b) it would for reasons to be recorded be necessary 
to direct the person who is in possession, has 
custody, control or dominium of the property not 
to engage in any particular transaction relating 
to such property and to take necessary steps to 
preserve the property, 
the Investigation Officer shall serve an order on the person 
who is having possession, control, custody or dominion over 
the property requiring such person to refrain from engaging 
in any activity specified by him (in this Act referred to as the 
“restraining order”) or to take necessary steps to preserve the 
property (in this Act referred to as  the “preservation order”). 
  
(2) A restraining order and a preservation order shall 
be in the form specified in Schedule II, and Schedule III 
respectively to this Act.
(3) A restraining order or preservation order shall not 
include a prohibition on the regular bona-fide use of such 
property in a manner that may not result in a significant 
depreciation of its value or otherwise handling such property 
in a manner that may not defeat the objectives of this Act. 
(4) A restraining order and preservation order unless 
vacated earlier, shall remain in force for a period specified in 
such order which shall not exceed thirty days.
(5) An Investigation Officer shall for reasons to be 
recorded, be entitled to extend the operational period of 
a restraining order or a preservation order for a period of 
another thirty days at a time on two more occasions, so as 
not to exceed a total period of such an order to ninety days.  


---- PAGE 0090 ----

88
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(6) Any restraining order shall require the person to 
whom such order is imposed not to engage in any activity 
prohibited by such restraining order, or other activity that 
would defeat the objectives of this Act being carried out 
without the approval of the relevant Investigation Officer, 
unless the same is vacated earlier or a period of thirty days 
have lapsed since the serving of such restraining order.
(7) Any preservation order shall require the person to 
whom such order is imposed to take necessary measures so 
as to preserve the value and present condition of the relevant 
property in the manner in which it exists and not engage 
in any activity which may result in the property decaying, 
getting destroyed or otherwise its value getting depreciated, 
or engage in any other activity that may defeat the objectives 
of this Act being carried out without the approval of the 
relevant Investigation Officer, unless the same is vacated 
earlier or a period of thirty days have lapsed since the serving 
of such preservation order.
(8) Where necessary, a restraining order or a preservation 
order may be issued by an Investigation Officer on any person 
or institution that is capable of restraining any transaction in 
respect of or preserving the value of the property suspected 
to be proceeds of crime, and in which event, it shall be 
the duty of such person or institution to act in terms of the 
relevant order.  
Clarification:
An Investigation Officer acting in terms of this section may 
issue a preservation order on a bank which has a bank account 
being maintained by a third party, which the Investigation 
Officer reasonably believes to contain a specified amount of 
proceeds of crime. When such order is received, it shall be the 
duty of such bank to preserve in the account the sum of money 


---- PAGE 0091 ----

89
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
stipulated in such order which is believed to be proceeds of 
crime, and subject thereto permit the account holder to operate 
the account. 
(9) If the Investigation Officer for reasons to be recorded 
is satisfied that it shall not be necessary to seize the property 
in respect of which the restraining order or a preservation 
order has been issued, he shall directly make an application 
to the High Court in terms of section 75 for the judicial 
freezing of the said property.
72. (1) An Investigation Officer may seize a property 
which he has reasonable grounds to believe is proceeds 
of crime, or a property to the corresponding value of such 
proceeds of crime where the proceeds of crime cannot be 
identified or is not available, including any property which 
has been subjected to a restraining order or a preservation 
order. 
(2) Where a notice calling for explanation has been served 
on any person under section 68 in respect of any property, 
such property shall not be seized, unless –
	 (a) such person has not provided a truthful 
explanation within the time frame stipulated;  
 
	 (b) the explanation provided is found to be false, 
inaccurate, insufficient or misleading; or
	 (c)	 it transpires that the property in issue had 
been received by gift, procured or derived in a 
fraudulent manner. 
(3) Upon seizure of a suspected proceeds of crime or a 
property of the corresponding value of the proceeds of crime, 
the Investigation Officer shall take possession, control, 
Seizure of 
suspected 
proceeds of
crime


---- PAGE 0092 ----

90
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
custody or dominion of such property, by serving on the 
person who is in possession, control, custody or dominion 
of such property a notice of seizure in the form specified in 
Schedule IV to this Act and thereby take effective possession, 
control, custody or dominion of such property:
Provided however, if the person who is in possession, 
control, custody or dominion of such property presents 
credible material to the Investigation Officer to satisfy 
him that the property in issue had been inherited by him 
a minimum of thirty years prior to such date on which the 
notice calling for explanation has been served, no further 
action shall be taken by the Investigation Officer under this 
Act:
Provided further, notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
in the above proviso, if there exists prima facie material 
that the property in issue had been originally procured by 
the committing of an unlawful activity that had an adverse 
impact on public finance or public property as defined in the 
Offences Against the Public Property Act, notwithstanding 
the lapse of thirty years from the point of inheritance of such 
property, it shall be lawful for an Investigation Officer to 
seize such property.
(4) If based on the material available there exists 
reasonable grounds for the Investigation Officer to believe 
that a property is proceeds of crime or is a property to the 
corresponding value of proceeds of crime and that unless 
immediate steps are taken to seize such property the 
objectives of this Act would be defeated, he shall be entitled 
after obtaining the approval of the Designated Officer, to 
take steps to temporarily seize the property at the time a 
notice calling for explanation under section 68 is served:


---- PAGE 0093 ----

91
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Provided however, if any suspected proceeds of crime 
or a property to the corresponding value of proceeds of 
crime is temporarily seized at the time a notice calling 
for explanation is served, such seizure shall remain valid 
only till the explanatory statement to the notice calling for 
explanation is received by the Investigation Officer, and 
until he has had reasonable time to consider the explanation 
provided in the explanatory statement and either accept or 
reject such explanation, and take a decision thereon.
(5)  If the Investigation Officer upon a consideration of 
the explanatory statement decides to accept the explanation, 
he shall vacate the order of temporary seizure and return 
possession of the property to the party from whom its 
possession was obtained. If the Investigation Officer 
decides to reject the explanation provided in the explanatory 
statement, he shall be entitled to make a further order in 
terms of this Act to seize the property and thereby retain 
possession of the property.  
(6) Unless as provided in subsection (2), a property shall 
not be seized unless an opportunity had been provided to the 
person who claims ownership, possession, or has custody, 
control or dominion of such property to explain that such 
property is not proceeds of crime, and the explanation 
provided in the explanatory statement had been rejected by 
the Investigation Officer for reasons to be recorded therefor:
  Provided however, if in the circumstances,
	
(a) 
providing an opportunity as aforesaid was 
not practicable; or
	
(b) 
any delay in affording such opportunity or 
time that may be taken for the verification 


---- PAGE 0094 ----

92
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
of the information contained in the 
explanatory statement would defeat the 
objectives of this Act; and
	
(c) 
there exist reasonable grounds for the 
Investigation Officer to believe that the 
property is proceeds of crime or is a 
property of the corresponding value of 
such proceeds of crime, 
he shall forthwith with the approval of the Designated 
Officer seize such property.
(7) Following an order for the restraint or the seizure 
thereof, the property suspected to be proceeds of crime or 
is property of the corresponding value of such proceeds of 
crime, the Investigation Officer shall be entitled to examine 
such property and documents, records, or information 
relating to such property, for the purpose of determining 
whether either the entirety or any part of such property or 
any other property within or connected with the restrained or 
seized property shall be excluded from seizure or a judicial 
freezing order as the case may be.
 (8) When serving the notice of seizure, the relevant 
Investigation Officer shall forthwith take possession of the 
relevant property:
Provided however, even if an Investigation Officer 
shall seize any of the following items of property, he shall 
not take possession and control of such property unless there 
are reasons to conclude that the possessor or any other party 
on his behest is acting in a manner to prevent the realization 
of or defeat the objectives of this Act -


---- PAGE 0095 ----

93
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (a) actual sole residence of the person in possession 
in such property;
	 (b) essential wearing apparels;
	 (c) essential furniture, fixtures and fittings, and 
cooking utensils at such residence;
	 (d) a vehicle used for the daily transportation of the 
person concerned and for the transportation of 
the utensils and equipment which he regularly 
uses for his occupation and the proceeds of his 
occupation; and 
	 (e) any other items that are essential for his living 
and occupation:
Provided further, this provision shall not apply to 
seizures under the provisions of the Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act and the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218). 
 
(9) Where any investigation officer seizes any of the 
property referred to in subsection (8) and permits its 
possession to remain with the person who possessed it, he 
shall require such person to enter into a bond requiring such 
person to submit the property to the High Court in the event 
of the High Court making an order for judicial freezing of 
such property. 
Clarification: 
An Investigation Officer may subject to the provisions of this 
Act make a restraining order or a preservation order in respect 
of any of the items of property referred to in subsection (8).     


---- PAGE 0096 ----

94
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(10) Pending an order from the High Court for the 
protection, preservation and management of the seized 
property, it shall be the duty of the relevant Investigation 
Officer to provide necessary protection and take necessary 
measures for the protection and preservation of the seized 
property. For such purpose, an Investigation Officer shall be 
entitled to obtain the services of any state agency.
(11) Within seventy two hours of the seizure of 
any suspected proceeds of crime or a property of the 
corresponding value of such proceeds of crime, the relevant 
Investigation Officer shall, report such seizure to the 
Magistrate’s Court within whose jurisdiction the seizure 
took place. The purpose of such notification shall be to 
apprise the Magistrate of the action taken in terms of this 
Act and to enable the Investigation Officer to obtain orders 
to facilitate the conduct of further investigations.
(12) The afore-stated seizure of the suspected proceeds 
of crime or a property of the corresponding value of such 
proceeds of crime, shall be in force for a period of up to 
thirty days, and unless earlier vacated by the Investigation 
Officer, shall lapse unless within such period a judge of the 
High Court issues an order for judicial freezing under and in 
terms of this Act or refuses to issue a judicial freezing order.
(13) Where upon the examination of the property or any 
material, and the representations that may have been made 
to him, an Investigation Officer forms the view that the 
restraining order issued or the seizure carried out shall be 
varied or vacated, he shall with the approval of the Designated 
Officer make such variation or vacation, and where necessary 
serve such revised restraining order or notice of seizure to 
the party who previously possessed, controlled, had custody, 
or held dominion over such property and, where necessary 
release the relevant property. He shall forthwith file a report 


---- PAGE 0097 ----

95
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
in the relevant Magistrate’s Court informing the action taken 
in that regard.
(14) Where, given the attendant circumstances, obtaining 
the prior approval of the Designated Officer may not be 
practicable or may defeat the objectives of this Act, an 
Investigation Officer may for reasons to be recorded, on 
his own motion serve such restraining order or carry out 
the Seizure of such proceeds of crime as the case may be, 
and thereafter as soon as possible obtain the approval of the 
Designated Officer.
73. (1) Upon the completion of an investigation into 
suspected proceeds of crime, the Investigation Officer shall 
submit the notes of such investigation along with the copies 
of documents and records collected and a list containing a 
description of the material gathered in the course of such 
investigation to the Designated Officer. He shall also submit 
a report containing his findings. 
(2) Following a consideration of the documents, records, 
and material submitted and the report of the Investigation 
Officer, the Designated Officer shall if he is of the opinion that 
the property is proceeds of crime, which therefor necessitate 
action being taken in the High Court for the judicial freezing 
and subsequent forfeiture of such property, submit a request 
to the Attorney-General to consider taking action in terms 
of this Act to institute and prosecute legal action in the High 
Court for the judicial freezing and forfeiture of property.
(3) If following the consideration of the available material 
the Designated Officer forms the view that the property in 
issue is not proceeds of crime, he shall if such property has 
not been frozen, make an application through the relevant 
Upon the 
completion of an 
investigation


---- PAGE 0098 ----

96
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Investigation Officer to the relevant Magistrate’s Court 
notifying the Magistrate of the decision taken not to take 
any further action with regard to the property in issue:
Provided however, prior to taking an action as 
stipulated above, the Designated Officer shall be entitled to 
seek and obtain the advice of the Attorney-General. 
(4) If following a consideration of material collected in 
the course of the investigation the Designated Officer on his 
own motion or having obtained the advice of the Attorney-
General forms the opinion that a property in respect of which 
a restraint order has been issued or a seizure made shall be 
released as no sufficient grounds exist that such property is 
proceeds of crime or the property is of the corresponding 
value of such proceeds of crime, he shall for reasons to be 
recorded and conveyed to the Investigation Officer, direct 
the Investigation Officer to forthwith take necessary action 
to vacate such order. 
(5) The Investigation Officer shall, having complied 
with the said directive, report such fact to the relevant 
Magistrate’s Court and notify the reasons received from the 
Designated Officer or the Attorney-General as the case may 
be, notify the party to whom the restraint order or the notice 
of seizure was served, and where relevant return custody of 
the property.   
(6) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Attorney-
General from instituting legal action in terms of this Act for 
the forfeiture of the relevant property under post-conviction 
forfeiture or non-conviction based  forfeiture of proceeds of 
crime:


---- PAGE 0099 ----

97
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Provided however, if the Designated Officer is 
the Director-General of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, Attorney-General 
shall act on the instructions of the Commission.
(7) If an Investigation Officer, upon the conduct of further 
investigations, forms the opinion that the released property 
is proceeds of crime, he may within one year of the previous 
release of the property, with the prior approval of the 
Designated Officer make an application to the High Court 
having served prior notice to the party who may be affected 
by a fresh restraining and seizure, seek from the High Court 
an order for the restraining and seizing of the previously 
released property. 
(8) An order for the issuance of restraining and seizure 
of the property in terms of this provision, shall be made by 
the High Court following inquiry, or ex-parte if it is satisfied 
that the notice to the affected party has been duly served. 
(9) No order for the restraint or seizure of property shall 
be made by the High Court unless in the view of the court 
there exists reasonable grounds to believe that the property 
in question is proceeds of crime.
 
74. Nothing in this Act shall prevent seizure of property 
in terms of any law which authorizes seizure of property, 
including the following – 
	 (a) Prevention of Money Laundering Act;
	
	 (b) Poisons, 
Opium 
and 
Dangerous 
Drugs 
Ordinance (Chapter 218);
Provisions of 
this Act relating 
to seizure not to 
apply in certain 
other laws


---- PAGE 0100 ----

98
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c) Forest Conservation Ordinance (Chapter 451);
	 (d) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);
	 (e) Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52); and
	 (f) Antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188):
Provided however, if a property is seized in terms of 
such law, such property following the seizure shall also be 
dealt with in terms of that law. 
PART III
Judicial Freezing of Proceeds of Crime
75. (1) If an Investigation Officer is of the view that, it 
shall be necessary to have the seized property to be frozen, 
he shall within seven working days from the seizing of such 
property, with the approval of the Designated Officer, having 
given notice in the form of Schedule V to this Act to any 
person-
	 (a) from whom the property was seized; 
	 (b) on whom the restraining order was served; 
	 (c) whose identity has been revealed to him as a 
person affected by the seizing or restraining of 
the property; and 
	 (d) whom he believes would have been directly 
affected by the restraining order or the seizing 
order if previously issued, 
Issue of a judicial 
freezing order by 
the High Court


---- PAGE 0101 ----

99
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
make an application, either by himself or with the assistance 
of any other police officer or the Attorney-General or an 
Attorney-at-Law appointed by the Attorney-General, to 
the High Court within the judicial zone in which the seized 
property or part thereof is situated or if the location of the 
property cannot be located to the High Court of the judicial 
zone of Colombo, seeking an order for judicial freezing of 
such property which is believed by him to be proceeds of 
crime or corresponding value of such proceeds of crime: 
Provided however, if the seizure or restraining of the 
property was by an Investigation Officer of Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, the afore-
stated application to the High Court shall be made by an 
officer of such Commission, an officer appointed by the 
Attorney-General on a request by the Commission, or by an 
Attorney-at-Law appointed by the Commission.
(2) Upon the making of such application by an 
Investigation Officer, the High Court shall consider -
	 (a) the material presented to court by the 
Investigation Officer; 
	 (b) such other relevant material the court may in the 
interest of justice permit;
	 (c) any party who has interest or claim in the 
property seized or restrained; 
	 (d) any such further material the court may in the 
interest of justice call for and examine; and 
	 (e) representations made on behalf of parties before 
court, 


---- PAGE 0102 ----

100
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
and make an order for the judicial freezing of the property, if 
the court is satisfied that –
(i) the Investigation Officer has served notice 
of his intention to make an application to the 
High Court for the judicial freezing of the 
property to the parties hereinbefore listed;
(ii) there exist reasonable grounds to believe 
that the property is proceeds of crime, or is 
property the value of which corresponds to 
the proceeds of crime, where the proceeds of 
crime is not available; and 
(iii) the making of such an order is in the interests 
of justice. 
(3) Such judicial freezing order shall be issued by the 
High Court in the form specified in Schedule VI to this Act. 
(4) If at the time the application for a judicial freezing order 
is made, the property in issue was not subject to a seizure, 
the High Court shall on the motion of the Attorney-General, 
pending an order being made in respect of the application 
for judicial freezing of the property, make suitable orders for 
the temporary protection, preservation and management of 
the property. 
(5) The High Court shall, having due regard to the 
nature of the property seized and the likelihood of persons 
being unaware of the making of the judicial freezing order 
engaging or attempting to engage in any transaction relating 
to the frozen property, direct the Investigation Officer to 


---- PAGE 0103 ----

101
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
publish the judicial freezing order or any part thereof in the 
manner specified in the order of court. The Court may also 
direct any public officer to take steps as may be specified in 
a further order with regard to the frozen property.
(6) If an Investigation Officer is of the view that a period 
of time exceeding seven working days is necessary to carry 
out further investigations for the purpose of making an 
application for an order from the High Court to freeze the 
seized property, he shall with the approval of the Designated 
Officer, within seven working days from the seizure of the 
property make an application setting out the reasons for such 
application to the High Court seeking an extension of time 
which shall not extend beyond another seven working days 
from the expiry of the seven working days from the seizure 
to make an application to freeze the seized property. 
(7) If an application is made by an Investigation Officer 
under subsection (6), the restraining of the property and the 
seizure shall remain in force till the High Court makes an 
order thereon.
(8) When making an order for the judicial freezing of 
property, the Court shall where necessary make orders 
in terms of this Act for the protection, preservation, and 
management of the frozen property.
(9) If following the restraining or seizure of a property, 
the High Court on an application by an Investigation Officer, 
does not make an order judicially freezing the seized or 
restrained property, the seizure of the property and the 
restraining order made in respect of the seized property shall 
stand vacated. Where necessary the High Court shall make 


---- PAGE 0104 ----

102
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
order to return the property to the person from whom it was 
seized or to any other person to whom it appears to court that 
such property shall be returned.
(10) If following an application to the High Court for the 
judicial freezing of a property and the High Court decides to 
release such property and the property has been so released, an 
Investigation Officer upon conduct of further investigations 
forms the opinion based on reasonable grounds that the 
released property is proceeds of crime, he may within one 
year of such order for the release of the property, and with 
the approval of the Designated Officer make one further 
application to the High Court having served notice to the 
party to whom the property was previously released by the 
High Court and to any other party who may be affected by a 
judicial  freezing order, seeking the judicial freezing of the 
previously released property. 
(11) An order for the judicial freezing of such property in 
terms of the provisions of subsection (10) shall be made only 
if the High Court is satisfied that the notice to the affected 
party has been duly served and there exists reasonable 
grounds to believe that such property in question is proceeds 
of crime.
(12) (a) Upon an application by an Investigation Officer 
to the High Court for the judicial freezing of a property that 
is believed to be proceeds of crime, and the High Court is 
satisfied that there exist reasonable grounds to believe that 
the property is proceeds of crime and therefore it shall be 
frozen, the court may on an application by a party from 
whose possession, control or dominion the property had 
been seized or restrained, shall conduct an inquiry.


---- PAGE 0105 ----

103
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(b) The High Court may after necessary inquiry, in 
the interest of the public and for the effective protection, 
preservation and management of such property, in addition 
to making an order for judicial freezing of such property, 
make a further order at the same time or any time thereafter 
for the temporary release of such property or part thereof to 
the party who made the afore-stated application:
 Provided however such temporary release shall be 
subject to such party submitting to court reasonable security 
in the form and nature as specified by court and subject to 
conditions that may be imposed by court including conditions 
restraining specified transactions.
(13) Such order for temporary release of property shall be 
made only if the High Court is satisfied that the temporary 
release of the property shall not defeat the objectives of this 
Act, and the court is satisfied that the property shall remain 
available without diminishing of its value due to wilful 
conduct of any party, to be subject to forfeiture proceeding 
under this Act. 
(14) An order of the High Court for judicial freezing of 
any suspected proceeds of crime shall be forthwith served 
on the parties who had previously possessed, controlled or 
held dominion over such property and is likely to be directly 
affected by such judicial freezing order. It shall also be 
published in the manner directed by the High Court.
(15) A judicial freezing order shall initially be valid for a 
period not exceeding six months.
 
(16) A judicial freezing order may be extended by the 
High Court for periods of six months at a time not exceeding 
a period of twenty-four months on an application by the 


---- PAGE 0106 ----

104
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Attorney-General or the Director-General of the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption as the 
case may be, for reasons to be recorded by the High Court.
(17) If following the judicial freezing of a property by 
the High Court, and if proceedings are instituted in the High 
Court or the Magistrate’s Court as the case may be for the 
committing of the unlawful activity which is alleged to have 
yielded the frozen property, the judicial freezing order made 
by the High Court shall remain in force for a period not 
exceeding three months following the delivery of judgement.
(18) Where the accused is convicted under the proceedings 
referred to in subsection (17) and an appeal is filed in respect 
of such conviction, the judicial freezing order shall remain 
in force till the completion of the appeal, judgment being 
delivered and a period of three months lapsing following the 
judgment being delivered: 
Provided however, if the accused is acquitted by such 
High Court or the Magistrate’s Court and an appeal against 
such acquittal is filed, the judicial freezing order shall remain 
in force till the completion of the appeal and three months 
lapsing following the judgment being delivered. 
(19) Following the making of a judicial freezing order, 
any person directly affected by the making of such judicial 
freezing order, may make an application to the High Court, 
seeking a variation of the judicial freezing order and the 
Court may grant such variation provided that the Court is 
satisfied that the variation sought does not relate to proceeds 
of crime: 
Provided however, the Court shall not permit carrying 
out of transactions that may even be legitimate, if such 
transaction relates to proceeds of crime.  


---- PAGE 0107 ----

105
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(20) Upon issuing a judicial freezing order, the High Court 
shall make necessary orders for the protection, preservation, 
and management of the frozen proceeds of crime applicable 
for the operational period of the judicial freezing order and 
such extended period during which forfeiture proceedings 
shall be conducted. Such order for the judicial freezing, 
protection, preservation and management of the property 
shall be made as provided in Part IV of this Act.
(21) Following a judicial freezing of suspected proceeds 
of crime by the High Court, the court may, pending the 
conduct of forfeiture proceedings or the making of a 
forfeiture order, on application by a party entitled to such 
property, if the court is satisfied that the claimant is –
	
	 (a)  acting in good faith and is entitled to such 
property if found to be proceeds of crime; and
	 (b)  willing to submit security to the value of such 
property in the manner directed by court,
after obtaining a valuation of the property, and subject to any 
further conditions and the submission of a bond, temporarily 
release such property or part thereof to the claimant. Such 
security shall be deposited as directed by the High Court 
with the court itself or with the Authority. 
(22) The property temporarily released on a bond as 
provided in the subsection (21) of this section, shall be used 
by the party to whom such property was released, only for 
the purposes directed by court, and shall be returned to Court 
or to the Authority whenever recalled by the High Court. 
(23) Such party to whom such property was released shall 
be required in terms of this Act to furnish such temporarily 
released property to the High Court to be subject to 


---- PAGE 0108 ----

106
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
forfeiture proceedings as provided in this Act or upon the 
order of forfeiture for disposal in the manner specified by 
the forfeiture proceedings. Upon submission of the property 
back to Court, the claimant shall be entitled to claim the 
security submitted:
 Provided however, if at the time the property is returned 
to the High Court, its value has been depreciated, the Court 
shall be entitled to forfeit the relevant value of the security 
and return to the claimant only the remaining value, if any.    
(24) When a property is temporarily released to a 
claimant, he shall be responsible for its effective protection, 
preservation and management and shall not intentionally 
engage in any activity which results to the destruction or the 
depreciation of the value of such property.  
(25) Nothing in this Act shall prevent the judicial freezing 
of property in terms of any law which authorizes the judicial 
freezing of property:
 Provided however, if a property is frozen in terms of 
such other law, such property shall following its judicial 
freezing be dealt with in terms of that same law. 
PART IV
Protection, Preservation and Management of 
Proceeds of Crime
76. (1) With the view to ensuring that a seized or frozen 
proceeds of crime is not destroyed or decayed and its value 
is not diminished or adversely affected, and for the purpose 
of ensuring that the seizure or judicial freezing of proceeds 
of crime does not disrupt or adversely affect –
Objectives and 
purposes of 
the protection, 
preservation, and 
management of 
seized or frozen 
proceeds of crime


---- PAGE 0109 ----

107
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (a)  legitimate finance, trade, and commercial 
activity;
	 (b)  the deriving of economic benefit through lawful 
financial, trading and commercial activity; 
	 (c)  the lawful employment of persons; and 
	 (d)  the interests of third parties,  
meaningful and effective action as provided in this Act shall 
be taken by an Investigation Officer to protect, preserve and 
manage the seized or frozen property that is believed to be 
proceeds of crime. 
(2) The seized or frozen property suspected to be 
proceeds of crime shall also be protected and preserved for 
the purpose of preserving evidence that would be necessary 
for the prosecution of any person for having committed an 
unlawful activity that is believed to have yielded the relevant 
proceeds of crime or for having committed any other offence. 
77. (1) When an Investigation Officer forms the view that 
a restrained or seized property suspected to be proceeds of 
crime requires to be protected or preserved, he shall either 
by himself or subject to relevant administrative directions, 
with the assistance of any other police officer or other public 
officer, provide necessary protection and necessary steps for 
the preservation of such property. 
(2) Where necessary orders of the Magistrates Court and 
the High Court shall be obtained for the effective protection, 
preservation, and management of the restrained, seized or 
frozen property.
Investigation 
Officer to take 
action for the 
protection, 
preservation, and 
management of 
seized or frozen 
proceeds of crime


---- PAGE 0110 ----

108
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
 (3) It shall be the duty of an Investigation Officer who 
seizes a property suspected to be proceeds of crime, pending 
the obtaining of necessary orders from the High Court, 
to provide necessary protection to such property and take 
necessary measures to preserve such property. 
(4) Where the Investigation Officer is of the view that it 
would be necessary to obtain the assistance or services of 
any public or statutory institution to provide protection or 
to take steps for the protection or preservation of the seized 
property, he shall, pending the High Court making an order 
in terms of this Part of this Act, make an application to the 
relevant Magistrate’s Court and obtain an order from a 
Magistrate directing a specified public officer or any public 
authority to take steps as may be necessary for the protection 
and preservation of the seized property.  
78. (1) When a property suspected to be proceeds of crime 
is frozen by the High Court or pending an order for judicial 
freezing of the property being made, such Court shall either 
on its own motion or on application by an Investigation 
Officer, make necessary orders in terms of this Act for the 
protection, preservation, and management of such frozen 
property or property that is sought to be frozen.  
(2) It shall be the duty of any public officer or public 
or statutory body to which an order is made by the High 
Court to take necessary steps for the effective protection, 
preservation and management of a seized or frozen property. 
   
(3) Pending a judicial order pertaining to the forfeiture 
of the seized or frozen property or its release or return to 
the party lawfully entitled to possess such property being 
made by the High Court, such property shall be held in trust 
by the party entrusted with the protection, preservation and 
management of the property, on behalf of the state or the 
Court order for 
the protection, 
preservation, and 
management of 
seized or frozen 
proceeds of crime


---- PAGE 0111 ----

109
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
relevant victim of crime or the party lawfully entitled to such 
property, as the case may be.
79. (1) Any seized or frozen property suspected to be 
proceeds of crime which at the time of the seizure or judicial 
freezing was being used to carryout any lawful financial, 
trading or commercial activity, shall be used by the person to 
whom the management of such property has been entrusted 
by the High Court, in the same or nearly as the same lawful 
manner, with every meaningful step being taken to prevent –
	 (a)  the destruction or decay of the property;
	 (b)  the diminishing of its economic value;
	 (c)  the disruption of legitimate finance, trade or 
commerce;
	 (d)  the disruption of lawful employment; and 
	 (e)  any adverse impact being caused to the interests 
of third parties. 
(2) Necessary action in such regard shall be taken pending 
the forfeiture of the property to the state, release or return to 
such property to the party having a legitimate entitlement 
to such property or pending a further order from the High 
Court. Where further action need be taken to achieve the 
objectives contained in this section, the person entrusted with 
the task of managing the property, shall make appropriate 
applications to the High Court and obtain necessary further 
authorization.    
80. (1) Any profit or other proceeds derived or generated 
from the management of proceeds of crime shall with the 
prior approval of the High Court, be utilized by the party to 
whom the management of the property has been vested by 
the High Court for –
Profit generated 
from and the 
cost of the 
management 
of proceeds of 
crime
Using the seized 
or frozen proceeds 
of crime 
subject to 
protection, 
preservation, 
and management 
for lawful 
financial, trading 
or commercial 
activity


---- PAGE 0112 ----

110
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(a)  the development of the same financial, 
business or trade activity;
(b)  any 
other 
lawful 
financial, 
trade 
or 
commercial activity; or 
(c)  investing in the most appropriate manner.  
(2) It shall be lawful for the person authorized by the 
High Court to protect, preserve and manage the suspected 
proceeds of crime, with the permission of the High Court 
to deduct the sum of money lawfully expended by him for 
the protection, preservation, and management of the said 
property or to have such sum of money reimbursed from the 
Authority. 
81. The protection, preservation, and management of a 
property frozen by the High Court shall be entrusted by such 
High Court to the Authority or to any other suitable public 
authority. The functions of protection, preservation and 
management of frozen proceeds of crime may be assigned to 
more than one such authority: 
Provided however, if the High Court forms the view 
that in view of the nature of the frozen property and the 
purpose for which it had been used at the time of its restraint 
or seizure, such property cannot be effectively protected, 
preserved, or managed by the Authority or any other public 
authority, the Court shall appoint a Receiver or a Special 
Manager to perform such functions as may be specified by 
such Court.
82.  (1) For the purpose of effective protection, preservation 
and management of any frozen proceeds of crime, the High 
Court shall appoint the Authority, a Receiver or a Special 
Manager if-
Protection, 
preservation, and 
management 
of a property by 
public authority 
or a receiver or 
special manager
Appointment of 
the Authority, 
a Receiver or a 
Special Manager


---- PAGE 0113 ----

111
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (a) the Investigation Officer applies to Court for 
the appointment of a person for the protection, 
preservation and management of a seized or 
frozen property as provided in this Act; and
	 (b) the Court considers the circumstances pertaining 
to the seized or frozen proceeds of crime to 
necessitate the appointment of the Authority 
or a Receiver or a Special Manager as it shall 
be necessary for the effective protection, 
preservation and management of such property:
Provided however, in instances where the 
Investigation Officer does not make an application for the 
appointment of the Authority or a Receiver or a Special 
Manager, and the Court upon the consideration of the 
nature, value and attendant circumstances pertaining to the 
property that has been seized or frozen is of the view that 
the appointment of the Authority or a Receiver or a Special 
Manager is necessary, the Court shall at its discretion confer 
the responsibility of protecting, preserving and managing 
the property to the Authority or make an appointment of a 
Receiver or a Special Manager in terms of this Part of this 
Act.
(2) Ordinarily an order authorizing the Authority or 
the appointment of a Receiver or a Special Manager shall 
be made after an order judicially freezing the suspected 
proceeds of crime, due to the circumstances to be recorded:
Provided however the High Court may make order 
authorizing the Authority or appoint a Receiver or a Special 
Manager to protect, preserve and manage the property, 
pending an order being made regarding the judicial freezing 
of the suspected proceeds of crime, if such property has been 


---- PAGE 0114 ----

112
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
restrained or seized, and proceedings have been instituted 
in the High Court for the judicial freezing of the suspected 
proceeds of crime. 
(3) Upon taking into consideration of the value, nature 
and other relevant attendant circumstances pertaining to 
the restrained, seized or frozen property, including whether 
the cost of protection, preservation and management of the 
property would exceed the value of the property, the Court 
may as an alternative to the appointment of a Receiver or 
a Special Manager, direct the Investigation Officer to take 
necessary measures to protect, preserve and manage such 
property as far as it may be reasonably possible.
83. (1) Where an order for the protection, preservation 
and management of a property suspected to be proceeds 
of crime is made in respect of a seized or frozen property, 
the Authority, any other public authority or Receiver or a 
Special Manager appointed by the High Court shall be 
entitled, subject to conditions imposed and directions of the 
High Court, to the possession, custody, use and control of 
such property during the operational period of such order. 
(2) Where the Authority, a Receiver or a Special Manager 
has been appointed by the High Court in respect of a seized 
or frozen property, during the pendency of such appointment, 
it shall be deemed that all rights of such property have 
been vested in the Authority or the Receiver or the Special 
Manager as the case may be. 
(3) Where the Authority, a Receiver or a Special 
Manager has been appointed by the High Court in respect of 
a seized or frozen property, the Authority, or the Receiver or 
Authority, any 
other public 
authority or 
Receiver or a 
Special Manager 
to take possession, 
use and control 
etc. of the 
property


---- PAGE 0115 ----

113
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
the Special Manager, as the case may be, shall be entitled to 
bring or defend any action or any other legal proceedings in 
his official name in relation to such property.
  84. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Authority, shall 
be empowered to function as a Receiver or as a Special 
Manager in terms of this Part of this Act. 
(2) Where the Authoritys has been established or there 
exists any other specialized authority of the state capable of 
effectively protecting, preserving or managing a seized or 
frozen property, the High Court shall not appoint any other 
person to function as a Receiver or as a Special Manager, 
unless following inquiry from Authority and upon a 
consideration of the nature of the seized or frozen property, 
the Court is of the view that the property cannot be properly 
protected, preserved or managed by the Authority or such 
other state authority. 
(3) Where the Authority has not been established or is 
not efficaciously functioning, and there does not exist any 
specialized agency of the state that is capable of effectively 
protecting, preserving and or managing the seized or frozen 
property, the High Court may for reasons to be recorded 
directly consider the appointment of a Receiver or a Special 
Manager.
85. (1) A Receiver shall be a person competent in 
protecting, preserving and managing a seized or frozen 
proceeds of crime. A Special Manager shall be a person 
who possesses expertise as may be necessary to manage a 
particular category of seized or frozen proceeds of crime, 
with the view to achieving the objectives of protecting, 
preserving and managing suspected proceeds of crime. 
Receivers
Authority to 
function as 
Receiver


---- PAGE 0116 ----

114
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) The High Court may if a necessity arises and for 
reasons to be recorded, appoint both a Receiver and a Special 
Manager in respect of a single suspected proceeds of crime. 
(3) A Receiver shall be entitled to employ one or more 
Special Managers.
  86. (1) For the purpose of appointing a Receiver or a 
Special Manager under this Part of this Act, the Secretary 
to the Ministry of the Minster shall maintain a register of 
the registered Receivers and Special Managers based on 
a classification of the category and nature of the property 
such Receivers and Special Managers are competent in 
protecting, preserving, and managing and the expertise of 
such Special Managers.
(2) The Minister may in terms of Regulations made under 
this Act, from time to time specify qualifications, experience 
and other relevant requirements including disqualifications 
that a person who intends to register as a Receiver or 
as a Special Manager under this Part of this Act shall 
possess or have, as the case may be. Such, qualifications, 
disqualifications and expertise may be general in nature or 
specific to each category of property.
(3) Any person possessing the qualifications, experience 
and any other requirements prescribed by the Minister, 
may at any time seek registration with the Secretary to the 
Ministry of the Minister to be appointed as a Receiver or 
a Special Manager. In the application seeking registration, 
the applicant shall state his qualifications, experience and 
evidence of satisfaction of requirements prescribed by 
the Minister, and specializations, if any, in the protection, 
Registration 
of Receivers


---- PAGE 0117 ----

115
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
preservations and management of different categories of 
property and fees payable for functioning as a Receiver or 
as a Special Manager. He shall also affirm to by affidavit the 
absence of any disqualification.
(4) Upon receipt of an application from a person seeking to 
be appointed as a Receiver or Special Manager, the Secretary 
to the Ministry of the Minister shall upon satisfaction that the 
applicant possesses the qualifications, experience and other 
requirements prescribed by the Minister, and the absence of 
any disqualification, register such person for a period of time 
not exceeding five years. 
(5) Any person registered as a Receiver or a Special 
Manager shall be removed from the register of the registered 
Receivers and Special Managers by the Secretary of the 
Ministry of the Minister upon:-
	
	 (a) conviction for having committed an offence 
punishable with a term of imprisonment or any 
other conduct involving moral turpitude;
	 (b) the receipt of a report from the High Court stating 
that he has not duly performed his functions as a 
Receiver or as a Special Manager;
	 (c) proof that the person is suffering from a 
disqualification prescribed by the Minister; or
	 (d) the relevant person making a request to be 
relieved of functioning as a Receiver or a Special 
Manager.
(6) Upon the removal of the name of the person from the 
register of the registered Receivers and Special Managers, 
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minster shall publish 
such removal in the Gazette. 


---- PAGE 0118 ----

116
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(7) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minster shall 
from time to time and not less than once a year publish in 
the Gazette the names of persons registered as the Receivers 
and Special Managers.
  87. A High Court which in terms of this Part of this Act 
is required to appoint a Receiver or a Special Manager 
in respect of a seized or frozen property suspected to be 
proceeds of crime, shall select such Receiver or Special 
Manager from the list of registered Receivers and Special 
Managers published in the Gazette. When making such 
appointment, the High Court shall take into consideration 
the following: -
	 (a) nature and status of the property;
	
	 (b) expertise that may be necessary for the 
protection, preservation, and management of the 
property;
	 (c) whether the identified person is willing to accept 
the appointment of the Receiver or Special 
Manager;
	 (d) fees payable for the protection, preservation, 
and management to the identified Receiver or 
the Special Manager;
	 (e) views of the Investigation Officer;
	 (f) views of any party represented at that stage of 
the judicial proceedings; and
	 (g) any other factor necessary for the purpose of 
giving effect to the objectives of this Act.
Appointment 
of  Receivers


---- PAGE 0119 ----

117
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
88. (1) When the High Court appoints the Authority, any 
other public authority or a Receiver or a Special Manager, a 
Notice of such appointment shall be published in the Gazette.
(2) The Court may at its discretion make an order for the 
service of such Notice on any party including the person 
from whom the property was seized and any regulatory or 
law enforcement authority.
89. When a property that has been seized or frozen is 
deemed to have been vested with a Receiver or a Special 
Manager by an order of the High Court, the Receiver or 
Special Manager shall as soon as practicable and not later 
than within seven working days submit a preliminary report 
to Court on the following :-
	
	 (a) conﬁrming whether the property seized or 
frozen, and vested with the Receiver or Special 
Manager, is the described property in the seizure 
or the judicial freezing order as the case may be;
	 (b) the nature, status, current location, value, and 
other pertinent details relating to the property 
seized or frozen;
	 (c) the manner in which the Receiver or Special 
Manager intends to protect, preserve, and 
manage the seized or frozen property, including 
the manner in which the property may be utilized 
so as to achieve the objectives of protection, 
preservation and management as contained in 
this Act and towards contributing towards the 
enhancement of the national economy, trade and 
commerce, and for the enhancement of its value;
	 (d) if a Receiver has been appointed, whether 
Notice of 
Appointment of 
the Receiver
Preliminary 
Report by the 
Receiver


---- PAGE 0120 ----

118
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
in his opinion the appointment of Special 
Manager is required for the effective protection, 
preservation, and management of such property;
	 (e) if applicable, any expenditure to be incurred for 
the protection, preservation, and management 
of the property, and any income or return the 
property may generate.
90. (1) Where the Authority or any other public authority 
or a Receiver has been appointed by the High Court in 
relation to any seized or frozen property entrusted with the 
task of protecting, preserving and managing a seized or 
frozen proceeds of crime, the Authority, such other public 
authority or receiver  may subject to the approval of the High 
Court, take or cause to be taken any step that is reasonably 
necessary to protect, preserve and manage the property 
and the value thereof, and such measures may include the 
following:-
	
	 (a) where necessary register the property;
	
	 (b) to take necessary steps to ensure that the 
possession, use, and transactions relating to such 
property shall be in compliance with the law; 
	 (c) if necessary, ensure that the property is insured;
	 (d) if the property has been used prior to its seizure or 
judicial freezing for a particular lawful financial 
activity or trade or commerce, continue to use 
and manage such property for such purpose, 
and in that regard take necessary steps as may 
be necessary to carry on such trade or business 
activity, incur necessary capital and recurrent 
expenditure, enter into contracts, employ 
agents, contract suitable persons with requisites 
expertise and skills that may be necessary for 
Duties, functions, 
and powers of the 
Authority, any 
public authority or 
a Receiver in rela­
tion to protecting, 
preserving and 
managing a seized 
or frozen proceeds 
of crime


---- PAGE 0121 ----

119
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
the carrying out of the relevant activity, and take 
any other necessary steps in that regard;
(e)	 	 if the property is –
(i) not claimed by any party;
(ii) perishable;
(iii) unsafe or hazardous;
(iv) is subject to rapid waste, decay, rapidly 
depreciating or other forms of loss;
(v) difficult to administer;
(vi) in view of the nature of the property requisite 
expertise for its effective management or 
maintenance or enhancement of value is 
either unavailable or difficult to procure;
(vii) the 
cost 
of 
protection, 
preservation, 
maintenance, storage and management as 
the case may be would far exceed the present 
value of the property, 
take necessary steps for its disposal or immediate 
realization of its value;
	 (f) if due to the nature of the seized or frozen 
property its protection, preservation and 
management is impracticable, take steps to 
dispose of such property;
	 (g) if the value of the property is volatile or 
transformative, take necessary steps for the 
preservation of its value or its disposal as the 


---- PAGE 0122 ----

120
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
case may be, by, subjecting such property to any 
method of preservation or using such property 
for any lawful transaction;
	 (h) if the property can be subject to financial, trade 
or commercial transactions which are likely to 
enhance its value or generate profit, cause the 
conduct of necessary lawful transactions for 
such purpose; 
	 (i) if the cost of the protection, storage, preservation 
or maintenance of the property is likely to 
exceed its value, dispose of it in such manner as 
the court may direct;
	 (j) if the seized or frozen property consists, wholly 
or partly, of an ongoing lawful business, 
which may be either a sole-proprietorship, a 
partnership, an incorporated company, trust or 
any other business entity-
(i) perform such functions which the proprietor, 
partners, board of Directors, Trustees or 
Principal Executive Officers of such business 
may in the normal course of business 
perform; 
(ii) make any payments by means of cheques or 
otherwise for the purpose of managing the 
business, and matters connected thereto; and
(iii) doing any other thing that is necessary or 
convenient for carrying on the business on a 
sound commercial basis;
	 (k) if the property comprises of or includes shares 
or other securities of a company, exercise rights 


---- PAGE 0123 ----

121
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
attached to such shares or securities which the 
person from whom such property was seized 
would have otherwise been entitled to perform; 
	 (l) if the property consists of a bank account or 
any other account maintained at a financial 
institution, perform such functions relating to 
such account and any other related or linked 
account in respect of which the person from 
whom such property was seized would have 
otherwise been entitled to perform;
	 (m) making necessary statutory payments;
	 (n) if the property is a ﬁxed deposit or any other 
form of investment where interest is accrued or 
drawn, manage the said property for the purpose 
of achieving the best return on such investment, 
and in that regard issue necessary directions to 
any party holding such investment; and
	 (o) if the property consists, wholly or partly, of an 
ongoing activity, which appears not to be related 
to a lawful business activity, manage such 
property for any lawful purposes for which such 
property has been used prior to the seizure or for 
any other purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 
(1), the Authority, other public authority, or a Receiver or a 
Special Manager shall perform the afore-stated functions a 
without the prior approval of the High Court in circumstances 
where the delay involved in obtaining the approval is likely 
to result in-
	 (a)  a signiﬁcant diminution in the value of the 
property;


---- PAGE 0124 ----

122
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b)  defeat the objectives of protection, preservation 
and management of suspected proceeds of 
crime; 
	 (c)  adversely affect legitimate finance, trade and 
commerce;
 
	 (d)  adversely affect the value of the property; or
 
	 (e)  pose a danger to public health and safety. 
(3) In situations referred to in subsection (2), the 
Authority, other public authority or the Receiver or the 
Special Manager as the case may be, shall upon taking 
necessary action, forthwith notify the High Court setting out 
the following:-
	 (a) reasons for the disposal or sale of the property;
	
	 (b) measures taken to protect, preserve and manage 
such property and lack of its efficacy; and 
	 (c) details relating to the realization of the value of 
the property.
91. (1) If the High Court has appointed a Special Manager 
or following the appointment of a Receiver, the Receiver 
forms the view that for the effective protection, preservation 
and management of the seized or frozen property a Special 
Manager shall be appointed who possess expertise in the said 
activities and the High Court appoints a Special Manager, 
such Special Manager may as authorized by the High Court 
perform such functions of a Receiver, and other functions 
which the High Court may authorize him to perform. Where 
the High Court appoits a Special Manager he shall by virtue 
of such appointment be conferred with the function, duties 
and powers of a Receiver as stipulated in this Act. 
Appointment, 
Duties, Functions 
and Powers of a 
Special Manager


---- PAGE 0125 ----

123
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) A Receiver and a Special Manager appointed in 
terms of this Act and any other persons appointed by such 
Receiver or the Special Manager to give effect to the duties 
and functions entrusted to him or to assist him, shall during 
the pendency of such appointment be deemed to be a Public 
Official for the purposes of the Anti-Corruption Act and a 
Public Servant for the purposes of the Penal Code.
(3) A Receiver and a Special Manager appointed in 
terms of this Act and any other persons appointed by such 
Receiver or the Special Manager to give effect to the duties 
and functions entrusted to him or to assist him shall for 
the purposes of the Assistance to and the Protection of the 
Victims of Crimes and Witnesses Act, be deemed to be a 
witness.
  92. (1) A Receiver or a Special Manager appointed under 
this Act may resign for cause to be shown:
Provided however, the High Court may for reasons to 
be recorded refuse to accept the resignation of the Receiver 
or the Special Manager as the case may be, and may direct 
such Receiver or Special Manager to perform such tasks as 
may be necessary for the due protection, preservation and 
management of the property and to finalize the accounts 
relating to such functions as may have been performed by 
such Receiver or a Special Manager: 
Provided further, the High Court may also withhold 
the acceptance of the afore-stated resignation up until the 
appointment of a succeeding Receiver or a Special Manager.
Resignation and 
removal of a 
Receiver and a 
Special Manager


---- PAGE 0126 ----

124
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) A Receiver or a Special Manager may be removed 
by the High Court on one or more of the following grounds-
	 (a) the name of the Receiver or the Special Manager 
having been removed from the register of the 
registered Receivers and Special Managers; and
	 (b) following an inquiry, the High Court having 
arrived at the finding that the Receiver or the 
Special Manager has -
 
(i) acted contrary to the provisions of this Act 
or any other law or in a manner contrary to 
directions issued by the High Court;
(ii) intentionally acted in a manner detrimental to 
the value of the property;
 
(iii) committed an offence in respect of the 
property;
(iv) acted in bad faith;
(v) acted in collusion with the person from whom 
the property had been seized;
(vi) acted without due diligence; or
(vii) acted in a manner defeating the purposes of 
this Act.
93. (1) Where the protection, preservation, and 
management of a seized or frozen property has been vested 
with the Authority or any other public authority, they shall 
bear the relevant expenditure for the protection, preservation, 
and management of such property .
(2) Where the protection, preservation and management 
of seized or frozen property has been vested with a Receiver 
or a Special Manager as provided for in this Act, the funds 
Expenditure 
pertaining to 
the protection, 
preservation, and 
management of 
property in respect 
of which a 
Receiver or a 
Special Manager 
has been 
appointed


---- PAGE 0127 ----

125
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
required for protection, preservation and management of the 
property shall be advanced or reimbursed with the approval 
of the High Court that appointed such Receiver or Special 
Manager, from the Fund for the Protection, Preservation and 
Management of Proceeds of Crime of the Authority.
94. (1) Upon the fulfilment of the duties and functions 
of the Receiver or Special Manager as the case may be 
pertaining to the protection, preservation, and management 
of a seized or frozen property, he shall submit to the High 
Court a report prepared and certified in conformity with 
specifications issued by the High Court, which shall include 
a statement of financial performance pertaining to the 
property as well as his duties and functions. The Receiver or 
the Special Manager as the case may be shall also include in 
such Report any further information which the High Court 
may require him to submit pertaining to the property and any 
such information which he himself deems fit.
(2) Upon the submission of the final report, the High 
Court shall consider it and subject to clarification and further 
information which the High Court may call for, accept the 
report.
95. (1) A Receiver or a Special Manager appointed in 
terms of this Act shall be released by the High Court from 
his duties and functions in the following circumstances:-
	 (a) upon the completion of the duties and functions 
entrusted to him with regard to the protection, 
preservation, and management of the property 
and the submission and acceptance of the final 
report;
	 (b) upon the acceptance of the resignation and 
subject to the fulfillment of his duties;
Final report of
the Receiver 
and the Special 
Manager
Release of 
the Receiver or 
Special Manager 


---- PAGE 0128 ----

126
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c) upon the removal of the Receiver or Special 
Manager in the manner provided in this Act:
Provided however, if a Receiver or a Special Manager 
were to be released from his duties and functions consequent 
to removal, such Receiver or Special Manager shall give 
effect to directions if any imposed by Court which relates to 
his appointment as a Receiver or a Special Manager.
(2) If upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Court orders 
the property that has been seized or frozen be vested with the 
owner or the possessor thereof or any other party which has 
claimed such property, the Court shall release the Receiver 
or Special Manager from complying with his functions as a 
Receiver or Special Manager, taking into consideration the 
report and any objections which may be urged by the owner 
or the possessor thereof against the release of the Receiver 
or Special Manager.
(3) Where the release of the Receiver or Special Manager 
is withheld, the High Court may on the application of the 
owner or person claiming such property make such order as 
it thinks just, charging the Receiver or Special Manager with 
the consequences of any act done, or default made by him in 
the protection, preservation and management of the seized 
or frozen property.
(4) An order of the High Court releasing the Receiver 
or Special Manager shall discharge him from all liabilities 
in respect of any act done or default made by him in the 
protection, preservation and management of the property 
or otherwise in relation to his conduct as the Receiver or 
Special Manager.


---- PAGE 0129 ----

127
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
PART V
Proceeds of Crime Management authority
96. (1) There shall be established an authority which shall 
be called and known as the Proceeds of Crime Management 
Authority for the purposes of this Act. 
(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by this 
Act, be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession 
and a common seal and may sue and may be sued in such 
name.
(3) The Authority shall have duties, functions and 
powers specified by this Act or by any other written law 
for the accomplishment of the objects of this Act and for 
the discharge of duties, performance of functions and the 
exercise of powers conferred on it under this Act.
(4) The Authority may also be vested with legal authority 
by any other written law or by an order of a competent 
court of law for the purposes of the protection, preservation 
and management of proceeds of crime or any other thing 
relating to pending of future criminal proceeding which may 
come under the purview of any other written law and or as 
specified by a judicial order:
Provided however, court shall recognize that the 
primary responsibility of the Authority shall be to protect, 
preserve and manage proceeds of crime under this Act. 
(5) The Authority shall possess the power to protect, 
preserve, and manage, property submitted to the Authority 
by court classified as property in respect of which offences 
Establishment of 
the Proceeds of 
Crime 
Management 
Authority 


---- PAGE 0130 ----

128
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
have been committed and property the ownership of which 
has not been claimed. The Authority shall take necessary 
steps to protect, preserve and manage such property pending 
further order by court.
(6) The Authority shall  perform, discharge and exercise 
its duties, functions and powers without being subject to any 
direction or other interference from any other person except 
a court entitled under law to direct or supervise the Authority 
in the performance, discharge and exercise of such duties, 
functions and powers.
(7) Any interference or obstruction in the performance, 
discharge or exercise of the duties, functions or powers 
vested in the Authority by this Act without lawful authority 
to do so shall constitute an offense in terms of this Act. 
97. (1) The Authority shall have the duties, functions and 
powers vested in Receivers and Special Managers by this Act 
with regard to the protection, preservation and management 
of proceeds of crime.
(2) The Authority shall perform the duties, discharge 
the functions and exercise the powers vested in a Receiver or 
in a Special Manager by any other written law, if in terms of 
such law or in terms of a judicial order made in terms of such 
law, the Authority is vested with the function of a Receiver 
or Special Manager under such other law for the protection, 
preservation and management of proceeds of crime.
(3) The Authority shall have the duty to give effect to 
any order issued on the Authority by a court of law.
Duties, Functions 
and Powers of the 
Authority


---- PAGE 0131 ----

129
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(4) When appointed as a Receiver or as a Special Manager 
by the High Court, the Authority shall have the functions, 
powers, and duties of a Receiver or a Special Manager as 
contained in this Act.
(5) When appointed as a Receiver or as a Special Manager 
by any court of law in terms of any other written law, the 
Authority shall have the functions, powers, and duties of 
such Receiver or Special Manager as contained in such other 
written law.
(6) The Authority shall maintain records and statistics of 
the discharge of its functions.
(7) The Authority shall within the first six  months of the 
following year present to Parliament through the Minister 
an annual report relating to its performance during the 
preceding year. The Authority shall publish such annual 
report in its website.
(8) The Authority in consultation with the Police 
Designated Officer and the Designated Officer of the 
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption shall, from time to time, stipulate the minimum 
monetary value of any proceeds of crime that shall be subject 
to a seizure or judicial freezing.
(9) The Authority shall from time to time develop and 
issue to Designated Officers Standard Operating Protocols 
to facilitate the protection, preservation and management of 
seized proceeds of crime by Investigation Officers.   
(10) The Authority shall have the powers to-


---- PAGE 0132 ----

130
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (a) hold any property movable or immovable that 
may become vested in the Authority by virtue 
of any purchase, grant, gift or otherwise and 
sell, mortgage, lease, grant, assign, exchange or 
otherwise dispose of the same;
	 (b) borrow or raise funds with or without securities 
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash 
or kind:
 
  
Provided that, the Board of Directors of the 
Authority shall obtain the prior written approval 
of the Department of External Resources of the 
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of 
Finance, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or 
donations made to the Authority;
	 (c) enter into and execute, whether directly or 
through any officer or agent authorized in that 
behalf by the Board of Directors of the Authority, 
all such contracts or agreements as may be 
necessary, for the discharge of the functions of 
the Authority;
	
	 (d) open, operate and maintain and close any 
account in any bank as the Board of Directors of 
the Authority may approve;
	 (e) appoint, dismiss or terminate and exercise 
disciplinary control over officers and employees 
of the Authority; 
	 (f) make rules for the administration of the affairs 
of the Authority; and
	 (g) determine the terms and conditions of service 
and the remuneration payable to the officers, 


---- PAGE 0133 ----

131
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
employees, agents, contractors, consultants and 
experts so appointed with the concurrence of the 
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
98. (1) The management and administration of the affairs 
of the Authority shall be vested in a Board of Directors 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”).
(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of the management 
and administration of the affairs of the Authority, perform, 
discharge and exercise the duties, functions and powers 
conferred or assigned to or imposed on the Authority by this 
Act.
(3) The Board shall consist of –
	 (a) the following ex-officio members:-
(i) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister not 
below the rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary 
nominated by the Secretary to that Ministry;
(ii) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Finance not below 
the rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary 
nominated by the Secretary to that Ministry;
(iii) an officer of the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Public Administration 
not below the rank of a Senior Assistant 
Secretary nominated by the Secretary to that 
Ministry;
(iv) a representative of the Inspector General of 
Police holding the rank of Deputy Inspector 
General of Police recommended by the 
National Police Commission; and
Management and 
administration of 
the Authority


---- PAGE 0134 ----

132
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b)	 seven other members (hereinafter referred to 
as the “appointed members”) appointed by the 
Minister in the following manner-
(i) a Chartered Accountant in consultation with 
the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka;
(ii) an Engineer in consultation with the Institute 
of Engineers of Sri Lanka;
(iii) an Attorney-at-Law in consultation with the 
Bar Association of Sri Lanka;
(iv) a Chartered Valuer in consultation with the 
Institute of Valuers of Sri Lanka; 
(v) a person qualified and experienced in 
management in consultation with the Ceylon 
Chamber of Commerce; and
(vi) two persons from reputed non-politically 
aligned civil society organizations of which 
the mandate shall include the development 
of transparency, strengthening of anti-
corruption measures or advancement of 
objectives of criminal justice in consultation 
with the Minister assigned the subject of 
Social Services.
(4) The Organizations referred to herein shall when their 
opinion is sought by the Minister nominate in its opinion the 
most appropriate member.


---- PAGE 0135 ----

133
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
99. (1) The Minister shall appoint from amongst the 
appointed members the person who in his opinion is 
the most suitable person to perform the functions of the 
Chairman of the Board and thereafter record the reasons for 
such appointment. 
(2) The Chairman shall be the head of the Authority and 
shall preside over meetings of the Board.
(3) The Chairman may resign from his office by letter 
addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall be 
effective from the date on which it is accepted by the 
Minister.
(4) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove the 
Chairman from the office of Chairman and report such 
removal with reasons therefor to Parliament by making an 
address to Parliament.
(5) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to perform 
the duties of his office due to ill health, other infirmity, 
prolonged absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the 
Minister may appoint any other appointed member to act as 
Chairman in addition to his normal duties as an appointed 
member.
100. (1) Every appointed member of the Board shall –
	 (a) be not more than seventy years of age as at the 
date of appointment to the Board;
	 (b) be of sound mind; and
	 (c) be a competent person with integrity and good 
repute.
Chairman of the 
Board
Disqualifications 
from being a 
member of the 
Board


---- PAGE 0136 ----

134
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as a member of the Board, if such person –
	 (a) is or becomes a member of Parliament or of any 
Provincial Council or any local authority;
	 (b) is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
	 (c) is a person who having been declared insolvent 
or bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka;
	 (d) is serving or has served a sentence of 
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri 
Lanka or in any other country;
 
	 (e) holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any 
contract made by or on behalf of the Authority; 
	 (f) is a person registered as a Receiver or a Special 
Manager under this Act; or
	 (g) has any financial or other interest as is likely to 
affect prejudicially, the discharge by him of his 
functions as a member of the Board.
  101. (1) Every appointed member of the Board 
shall, unless such member earlier vacates office by death, 
resignation or removal, hold office for a period of three 
years and shall be eligible for reappointment for two terms 
consecutive or otherwise: 
Provided however, the appointed members of the first 
Board appointed under the provisions of this Act shall hold 
office from the date of appointment in the following manner:-
	 (a)  the Chairman shall hold office for a period of 
three years; 
Term of office 
of the appointed 
members of the 
Board


---- PAGE 0137 ----

135
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b)  three other members other than the Chairman 
shall hold office for a period of two years; and
	 (c)  the remaining three members shall hold office 
for a period of one year, and 
the three members of the first Board who shall vacate office 
during the first and second year from the appointment to the 
first Board shall be determined by drawing lots at the first 
meeting of the Board.
(2) Where a vacancy arises in the office of an appointed 
member of the Board due to the expiration of his period of 
office, such member shall continue in such office until a new 
member is appointed in his place.
(3) The Minister shall, within one month of the occurring 
of a vacancy in the office of an appointed member of the 
Board due to the expiration of his period of office appoint a 
new member in his place.
102. (1) Every appointed member may at any time resign 
from his office by a letter to that effect, addressed to the 
Minister, and such resignation shall be effective from the 
date on which it is accepted by the Minister in writing.
(2) Where any appointed member by reason of illness, 
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable 
to discharge the functions of his office, the Minister may, 
having regard to the provisions of this Act relating to the 
composition of members of the Board, appoint some other 
person to act in his place. 
(3) The Minister may after affording an opportunity to 
the relevant member to explain and thereupon being satisfied 
Removal and 
resignation of 
appointed 
members of the 
Board


---- PAGE 0138 ----

136
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
that removal of such member is warranted, and for reasons 
to be given in writing to such member and to the Board, 
remove an appointed member from office. 
(4) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or is 
removed from office, the Minister may, having regard 
to the provisions of this Act relating to the composition 
of members of the Board, appoint another person in his 
place and the person so appointed shall hold office for the 
unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom 
he succeeds.
103. (1) A member of the Board shall at the time of 
consideration being given to being appointed as a member of 
the Board, submit to the Minister, any interest he may have 
which may give rise to either a conflicting or competing 
interest with the objectives and functions of the Authority. 
(2) A member of the Board who is directly or indirectly 
interested in any matter which may give rise to a conflicting 
or competing interest with regard to a matter under 
consideration or due to be taken up before the Board shall 
disclose the nature of such interest to the Board and shall not 
take part in any deliberation or decision making of the Board 
with regard to such matter.
104. (1) The meetings of the Board shall be held a 
minimum of once a month.
(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five 
members consisting of minimum of two ex officio members.
(3) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the 
Members of the 
Board to disclose 
any interest
Quorum and 
meetings of the 
Board


---- PAGE 0139 ----

137
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting of 
the Board a member elected by the members present shall 
preside at such meeting.
(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board 
shall be decided by the vote of the majority of members 
present at such meeting. In the case of an equality of votes 
the Chairman or such other member who shall chair such 
meeting, in addition to his vote have a casting vote.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, the 
Board may regulate the procedure in relation to the meetings 
of the Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.
(6) The Board shall from time to time appoint an Attorney-
at-Law or a Chartered Secretary to either full time or part 
time basis function as the Board Secretary and determine the 
remuneration payable for such person.
(7) It shall be the duty of the Board Secretary to as 
directed by the Chairman or based on a resolution of the 
Board to convene meetings of the Board.
(8) It shall be the responsibility of the Board Secretary to 
maintain minutes of meetings of the Board and facilitate the 
necessary arrangements for the conduct of Board meetings.
105. The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy 
among its members and any act or proceeding of the Board 
shall not be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the 
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect 
in the appointment of a member thereof.
Acts or 
proceedings of 
the Board deemed 
not to be invalid 
by reason of any 
vacancy


---- PAGE 0140 ----

138
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
106. The members of the Board shall be paid remuneration 
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by 
the Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Finance.
107. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody 
of the Board Secretary. 
(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such 
manner as may be determined by the Board.
(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any 
instrument or document except with the sanction of the Board 
and in the presence of the Chairman and one other member 
of the Board who shall sign the instrument or document in 
token of their presence: 
Provided however, where the Chairman is unable to 
be present at the time when seal of the Authority is affixed 
to any instrument or document, any other member of the 
Board authorized in writing by the Chairman on that behalf 
shall be competent to sign such instrument or document in 
accordance with the provisions of this subsection:
Provided further, if the Chairman has not appointed 
a member of the Board to sign on his behalf in his absence, 
the Board shall appoint another member of the Board 
empowering such member to perform such function.
(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the 
instruments and documents to which the seal of the Authority 
has been affixed.
108. (1) The Board shall having regard to the scheme of 
recruitment developed having due regard to the duties and 
functions of the Authority and approved and adopted by 
Remuneration of 
the members of 
the Board 
Seal of the 
Authority
Chief Executive 
Officer of the 
Authority


---- PAGE 0141 ----

139
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
the Board, following a transparent scheme for the selection 
of a suitable person appoint the Chief Executive Officer of 
the Authority. It shall be lawful for the Authority to with 
the approval of the relevant head of the institution appoint 
a suitable public officer as the Chief Executive Officer on 
secondment.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer so appointed shall be in 
charge of all executive and administrative functions of the 
Authority and the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority. 
(3) The Board shall exercise the disciplinary authority 
over such Chief Executive Officer.
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall on the invitation 
of the Board be entitled to participate at the meetings of the 
Board.
(5) The Chief Executive Officer shall, unless he vacates 
office earlier by death, resignation, or removal be entitled to 
serve in such position for a period not exceeding ten years.
(6) The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the 
general directions and supervision of the Board-
	 (a) be charged with the administration of the affairs 
and the executive functions of the Authority 
including the administration and control of the 
staff;
	 (b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions 
of the Board; and
	 (c) carry out all such functions as may be assigned 
to the Chief Executive Officer by the Board.


---- PAGE 0142 ----

140
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(7) The Chief Executive Officer may be removed from 
office if he –
	 (a) becomes permanently incapable of performing 
the duties of the office of the Chief Executive 
Officer; 
	 (b) had in the opinion of the Board, committed 
any 
act 
which 
is 
incompatible 
with 
the 
duties, 
functions 
and 
powers 
of 
such officer, has acted in a manner that
either defeats the purposes of this Act or in 
a manner prejudicial to the interests of the 
Authority, or been inefficient; or
	
	 (c) has failed to comply with any directions issued 
by the Board.
(8) The office of the Chief Executive Officer shall become 
vacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection 
(7) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the 
Board by the holder of that office or upon completion of the 
period of ten years’ service.
(9) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Board may appoint an officer of the 
Authority holding managerial responsibility, to perform the 
duties of the Chief Executive Officer until an appointment 
is made.
(10) During the fourth quarter of every year, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall with due regard to the objects and 
functions of the Authority submit to the Board for approval 
a corporate plan for the following year.
(11) The Chief Executive Officer shall be paid such 
remuneration as may be determined by the Board. 


---- PAGE 0143 ----

141
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
109. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall have the authority to appoint such 
officers and other employees as it may be necessary for the 
efficient exercise and discharge of its powers and functions.
(2) The recruitment of officers who are to be vested with 
managerial responsibility shall be carried out by the Chief 
Executive Officer based upon a scheme of recruitment 
approved by the Board and every such appointment shall be 
ratified by the Board.          
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall subject to the 
provisions of this Act, exercise disciplinary control over the 
officers and employees of the Authority:
 Provided however, no disciplinary measure relating 
to an officer vested with managerial responsibility shall be 
carried out by the Chief Executive Officer unless the Board 
has given approval.
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority 
to determine the terms and conditions of employment of the 
officers and employees of the Authority:
Provided however, such terms and conditions pertaining 
to an officer vested with managerial responsibility shall be 
ratified by the Board.
(5) All officers and employees of the Authority shall, 
within one month of employment, declare in writing to the 
Authority of their personal direct or indirect interest in the 
affairs and transactions of the Authority as well as those of 
their close relations or concerns in which such officer or 
employee has a substantial interest.
Staff of the 
Authority


---- PAGE 0144 ----

142
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
110. (1) The Authority on the recommendation of 
the Chief Executive Officer may obtain on secondment, 
temporarily or contractual basis the services of any public 
officer or an officer or employee of a statutory body, with 
the consent of such public officer, officer or employee and 
his appointing authority. The remuneration payable to such 
public officer, officer or employee shall be determined by 
the Board.
(2) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed to 
the staff of the Authority –
	 (a) if, at the time of his temporary appointment to 
the staff of the Authority, his substantive post 
in the public service was a post declared to be 
pensionable under the Minutes of Pensions-
	
(i) he shall, while in the employment of the 
Authority be deemed to have been absent 
from duty in the public service on leave 
granted without salary on grounds of public 
policy and accordingly section 10 (1) of 
those Minutes shall apply to him; and
(ii) in respect of him, the Authority shall pay out 
of the funds of the Authority to the Treasury 
to be credited to the Consolidated Fund for 
every complete month during which he is in 
the employment of the Authority, such sum 
not exceeding twenty-five per centum of the 
salary payable to him in his substantive post 
in the public service as may be determined by 
the Minister assigned the subject of Finance; 
and
Appointment of 
public officers to 
the Authority


---- PAGE 0145 ----

143
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b) if, at the time of his temporary appointment to 
the staff of the Authority, he was a contributor 
to the Public Service Provident Fund established 
under the Public Service Provident Fund 
Ordinance, his service to the Authority shall, 
for the purpose of that Ordinance, be deemed to 
be service to the Government, and accordingly 
he shall while he is in the employment of the 
Authority, continue to pay to the Public Service 
Provident Fund such contributions as he may be 
liable under that Ordinance to pay, and in respect 
of him the Authority shall pay at the close of each 
financial year out of the funds of the Authority 
to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury to be 
credited to the appropriate account in the Public 
Service Provident Fund a sum equivalent to such 
contribution as the Government is liable to pay 
to the Public Service Provident Fund in respect 
of him.
(3) Where any public officer is permanently appointed to 
the staff of the Authority –
	 (a) he shall be deemed to have left the public 
service; 
	 (b) if, at the time of his permanent appointment to 
the staff of the Authority, his substantive post 
in the public service was a post declared to be 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pensions- 
(i)  he shall be eligible for such an award under 
those Minutes as might have been made 
to him if he had been retired from the 
public service on the date of his permanent 
appointment to the staff of the Authority;


---- PAGE 0146 ----

144
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(ii)  the amount of any such award made under 
those Minutes shall not be paid to him unless 
his employment in the staff of the Authority 
is terminated by retirement on account of age 
or ill health or by the abolition of the post 
held by him in such staff or on any other 
ground approved by the Minister assigned 
the subject of Public Administration; and 
(iii) in the event of his death while in employment 
of the Authority, such an award as might have 
been made in respect of him under those 
Minutes if he had died immediately before 
his permanent appointment to the staff of the 
Authority may be made in respect of him; 
and 
	 (c)  if, at the time of his permanent appointment to 
the staff of the Authority he was a contributor 
to 
the 
Public 
Service 
Provident 
Fund 
established by the Public Service Provident 
Fund Ordinance, he shall for the purpose of that 
Ordinance, be deemed to have left the service 
of the Government upon the determination of 
his contract with the consent of the Government 
otherwise than by dismissal. 
(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has 
entered into a contract with the government by which he 
has agreed to serve the government for a specified period, 
any period of service to the Authority by that person shall 
be regarded as service to the government for the purpose of 
discharging the obligations under such contract.


---- PAGE 0147 ----

145
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
111. The Authority may on the recommendation of the 
Chief Executive Officer obtain the services of any other 
persons on fixed-term contracts or contract for specific 
services to be provided if the Authority is satisfied that the 
services of such person is necessary for the due discharge 
of the functions of the Authority as provided by this Act or 
as directed to be performing in terms of an order of a court.
112. (1) The Authority shall have the following funds:-
	 (a) Management and Administration fund of the 
Authority; 
	
	 (b) Fund for the Protection, Preservation and 
Management of Proceeds of Crime.
(2) There shall be credited to the Management and 
Administration fund of the Authority:-
	 (a)  all sums of money as may be voted from time to 
time by Parliament, for the use of the Authority; 
	 (b) all sums of money as may be remitted to the 
Fund by courts of law; and
	 (c) all such sums of money as may be received 
by the Authority by way of loans, grants, 
gifts, bequests or donations from any source 
whatsoever whether within or outside Sri Lanka.
(3) There shall be credited to the Fund for the Protection, 
Preservation and Management of Proceeds of Crime:-
	 (a)  all sums of money as may be remitted to the 
Fund by courts of law;
Authority to 
obtain services of 
other personnel
Funds of the 
Authority


---- PAGE 0148 ----

146
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b) all sums of money as may be voted from time to 
time by Parliament, for the use of the Authority; 
and
	 (c) all sums of money that may be received by the 
Authority for the protection, preservation and 
management of proceeds of crime.
(4) There shall be paid out of the Management and 
Administration fund of the Authority -
	
	 (a)  all such sums of money as are required to 
meet any expenditure for the discharge of the 
functions of the Authority including expenditure 
pertaining to its day-to-day functioning; 
	 (b) all such sums of money as required for the 
payment of salaries, allowances, compensation, 
fees and other payments of the Board and the 
Chief Executive Officer, officers and employees 
and other persons whose services have been 
obtained on contractual basis; and
	 (c) any other payments authorized by the Board.
(5) There shall be paid out of the Fund for the Protection, 
Preservation and Management of Proceeds of Crime -
	 (a)  all such sums of money as are required to 
discharge functions entrusted to the Authority by 
this Act or any other written law and by orders 
of a court of law pertaining to the protection, 
preservation, and management of proceeds 
of crime and matters associated therewith, 
including payments to be made to persons who 
have provided specific services relating to such 
protection, preservation and management;


---- PAGE 0149 ----

147
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
 	(b) on the recommendation of the Chief Executive 
Officer with the approval of the Board a sum of 
money which shall not exceed twenty five per 
centum of the annual expenditure required for 
the functioning of the Authority; and 
	 (c) any other payments authorized by the Board 
including sums of money necessary to – 
	
(i) provide training to the Designated Officers 
and the Investigation Officers;
(ii) provide training to legal officers and other 
Attorneys-at-law who provide professional 
services to achieve the objectives and 
functions of this Act;
(iii) procurement of equipment and programs 
that may be necessary for the tracing, search, 
identification and examination of proceeds of 
crime; 
(iv) the payment of professional fees payable 
to experts who may be contracted by the 
Designated Officers for the purpose of 
conducting cash flow tracing, financial 
analysis, and tracing proceeds of crime; 
(v) programs necessary to create awareness 
regarding the provisions of this Act; and
(vi) contingent upon successful forfeiture of 
proceeds of crime, to be credited to the Police 
reward fund established under section 73 of 
the Police Ordinance (Chapter 53) to be used 
for the payment of rewards to Investigation 
Officers, other personnel who have assisted 
in the conduct of the investigation and 


---- PAGE 0150 ----

148
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
informants in terms of a scheme formulated 
by the Inspector General of Police, and 
(vii) contingent upon successful forfeiture of 
proceeds of crime, to be credited to a reward 
fund to be established by the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption to be used for the payment of 
rewards to Investigation Officers, other 
personnel who have assisted in the conduct 
of the investigation and informants in terms 
of a scheme formulated by that Commission.
(6) Where any money is received by way of loans, grants, 
gifts, bequests or donations, by the Authority the source and 
the purpose for which such loans, grants, gifts, bequests 
or donations were made available to shall be made public 
by the Authority by publishing such receipts in the official 
website of the Authority within one month of such receipt. 
(7) The Chief Executive Officer with the ratification of the 
Board shall make plans and related guidelines pertaining to 
investment, management and payment of moneys out of the 
Management and Administration fund of the Authority and 
the Fund for the Protection, Preservation and Management 
of Proceeds of Crime.
(8) The annual report of the Authority shall include the 
annual audited statement of accounts which shall include all 
sums of money received by the Authority including sources 
of funds.
113. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the 
calendar year.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall cause proper books 
of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets 
and liabilities and all other transactions of the Authority.
Financial year and 
Audit of Accounts 
of the Authority


---- PAGE 0151 ----

149
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution and 
the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018 relating to the audit 
of the accounts of public corporations shall apply to the audit 
of the accounts of the Authority.
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall through the Board 
within three months of the end of each financial year, submit 
to the Minister an annual report of the activities carried out 
by the Authority during that financial year, and cause a copy 
each of the following documents relating to that year to be 
attached to the report:– 
	 (a) the audited accounts of the Authority for the 
year, along with the Auditor-General’s report;
	 (b) a report of proposed activities for the year 
immediately following the year to which such 
report and accounts relates.
(5) The Minister shall place such report and documents 
before Parliament within two months of the receipt thereof 
and make such report and documents publicly available on 
the official website of the Authority in the official languages.
114.  It shall be a defence in any criminal or civil 
proceeding for anything done or omitted to be done by— 
	 (a) a member of the Board;
	 (b) the Chief Executive Officer, officer or any 
employee of the Authority. 
if he proves that he exercised due diligence and reasonable 
care and acted in good faith in the course of or in connection 
with the discharge or purported discharge of his obligations 
under this Act or any regulation, rule, order or directive 
issued or made thereunder.
Protection against 
actions and law 
suits 


---- PAGE 0152 ----

150
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
115. Any expense incurred by a member of the Board 
or any other officer or employee or agent of the Authority 
or such other former member, officer, employee or agent in 
any suit or prosecution brought against the Authority or such 
person before any Court, in respect of any act which has been 
committed by the Authority or such person in his official 
capacity under this Act or on the direction of the Authority, 
shall, if the Court holds that such act had been done in good 
faith, be paid out of the Management and Administration 
fund of the Authority.
116. (1) The members of the Authority, the Chief 
Executive Officer and officers and employees of the 
Authority and any other person whose services are obtained 
on contractual basis shall be deemed to be public servants 
within the meaning of the Penal Code. 
(2) The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled 
institution for the purposes of the Anti-Corruption Act.
PART VI
Forfeiture of Frozen Proceeds of Crime 
And Related Proceedings
117. (1) Where the committing of an unlawful activity 
has been investigated into and the suspected perpetrator 
prosecuted for having committed the relevant unlawful 
activity and he has been convicted of having committed 
such unlawful activity, proceedings which shall be referred 
to as post-conviction forfeiture proceedings may thereafter 
be instituted for –
(a) 		 the forfeiture of proceeds of such unlawful 
activity which has been frozen; or 
Expenses incurred 
to be paid out of the 
Management and 
Administration fund 
of the Authority
Members of the 
Authority, etc. 
deemed to be public 
servants
General provisions 
on post-conviction 
forfeiture


---- PAGE 0153 ----

151
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(b) 		 the corresponding value of the proceeds of crime 
to be recovered and forfeited. 
(2) Such proceedings shall be instituted –
(a)	 	 against the person who has been convicted for 
having committed the unlawful activity which 
yielded the relevant proceeds of crime or who 
had in his possession control or dominion the 
property of the corresponding value of such 
proceeds of crime; or
(b)	 	 against any other person from whom the relevant 
proceeds of crime was recovered. 
(3) The proceedings for forfeiture under post-conviction 
forfeiture proceedings shall commence following the 
conviction of the offender of the corresponding unlawful 
activity, and need not await the determination of the appeal 
if any, against the conviction: 
Provided however, if an appeal is filed, and following 
post-conviction forfeiture proceedings, the property is 
forfeited, the order of forfeiture shall not be implemented till 
the determination of the appeal, and shall be carried out only 
if the conviction is affirmed in appeal: 
Provided further, if –
(a)	 	 the trial does not result in the conviction of the 
accused; or 
(b)	 	 the appeal against the conviction is successful 
and the conviction is set-aside, 
the Attorney-General may initiate non–conviction based 
forfeiture proceedings in respect of the property believed 


---- PAGE 0154 ----

152
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
A penalty to the 
value of the 
proceeds of crime
to be proceeds of crime or in respect of the property of the 
corresponding value of such proceeds of crime.
  118. (1) Following the conviction of any person for having 
committed any unlawful activity, the court which convicted 
such person shall, in addition to the punishment specified 
for such unlawful activity in the relevant law, be entitled 
to impose a penalty to the value of the proceeds of crime 
derived at the time of committing of the unlawful activity 
and any value derived by the utilization of such proceeds of 
crime: 
  
Provided however, an order for payment for a penalty 
as provided above shall not be made if the unlawful activity 
had been committed prior to the date of the coming into 
operation of this Act: 
Provided further, an order for the payment of penalty 
as provided above shall not be made if the proceeds of such 
unlawful activity or a property to the corresponding value of 
such proceeds of crime had been seized or frozen in terms of 
this Act or is otherwise available to be subject to forfeiture 
proceedings in terms of this Act.
(2) The penalty imposed in terms of subsection (1) shall 
be recovered in the form of recovery proceedings pertaining 
to recovery of fines contained in the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act.
(3) If the proceeds of crime derived out of the committing 
of the unlawful activity referred to in subsection (1) had 
been the personal property of any person, and the penalty 
specified in the section is paid by the convicted person, the 
court shall make order for the release of the sum paid to such 
person who is entitled to the proceeds of crime.


---- PAGE 0155 ----

153
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
  (4) If the penalty as provided in subsection (1) is paid 
in full by the convicted person, the Attorney-General shall 
not be entitled to institute proceedings for post-conviction 
forfeiture of the relevant proceeds of crime.
  (5) If the penalty as provided in subsection (1) is not paid 
in full by the convicted person, the Attorney-General shall 
be entitled to institute proceedings for post-conviction of the 
relevant proceeds of crime in respect of the remaining sum 
of money.
119. (1) Following  the conviction of a person by a trial 
court for having committed an unlawful activity, and there 
being identified property which is believed to be proceeds 
of crime derived out of the committing of such unlawful 
activity or property which is to the corresponding value of 
such proceeds of crime, the Attorney-General may within 
three months from the date on which the accused was 
convicted and sentenced, notwithstanding the convicted 
accused having filed an appeal against such conviction, 
institute proceedings in the relevant trial court moving such 
court to conduct an inquiry under this Act –
	 (a) 	for the forfeiture of-
(i) 	 such proceeds of crime; 
(ii)	 the property which is of the corresponding 
value of the proceeds of crime;
(iii) 	the security submitted to court in lieu of 
release of the proceeds of crime following 
its judicial freezing; or 
(iv) the monetary proceeds of the disposal of 
the proceeds of crime pending forfeiture 
proceedings; and
Attorney General 
to institute 
proceeding for 
Post conviction 
Forfeiture


---- PAGE 0156 ----

154
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (b)	 for a direction that such proceeds of crime, 
property to the corresponding value to such 
proceeds of crime, security or the proceeds of 
disposal of the proceeds of crime be released to 
the relevant victim of unlawful activity, if any: 
Provided however, if the trial court following the 
conviction of the accused, when imposing the sentence, has 
imposed a penalty under the applicable law on the convicted 
accused to an amount not less than the value of the relevant 
proceeds of crime, the Attorney-General shall not be entitled 
to institute proceedings under this Act for post-conviction 
forfeiture of the proceeds of crime:
Provided further, if the court determines that the 
relevant proceeds of crime are of a nature that can generate 
secondary or continuous proceeds, the Attorney-General 
shall institute proceedings under this Act for post-conviction 
forfeiture of proceeds of crime.
(2) The trial Court that has convicted a person for having 
committed an unlawful activity shall have jurisdiction to 
entertain an application referred to in subsection (1), and 
following inquiry as provided herein -
	 (a) 	make order for the forfeiture of-
(i)	 such proceeds of crime; 
(ii)	 the property of the corresponding value of 
the proceeds of crime; 
(iii)	the security submitted to court in lieu of the 
release of the proceeds of crime following 
its judicial freezing; or 


---- PAGE 0157 ----

155
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(iv)	proceeds of the disposal of the proceeds of 
crime pending the forfeiture; or
	 (b)	 direct that such proceeds of crime or property 
of such corresponding value of such proceeds 
of crime, security or the proceeds of disposal 
be released to the relevant victim of unlawful 
activity.  
  120. (1) The institution of proceedings in terms of section 
119 shall be carried out by filing a Petition and Affidavit 
together with duly authenticated necessary supporting 
evidence. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any 
other law, the Affidavit shall be affirmed to or sworn by a 
person who is acquainted with the averments contained in 
the Petition. 
  (2) The Attorney-General shall be entitled to institute 
proceedings in terms of this Part of the Act, notwithstanding 
the trial against the accused having commenced and been 
conducted in the absence of the accused following an order 
made under section 192 or 241 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act.
  (3) A convicted accused who had been absconding during 
the trial, shall not be entitled to present a claim for the release 
of the property which is the subject matter of the inquiry or 
participate in proceedings under this Part of this Act, unless 
he has purged his default in appearance before the trial court, 
and has established that his absence at the trial was due to –
	 (a)	 his being unaware of the trial
	
	
proceedings; or
	 (b) 	for reasons beyond his control. 
Manner of 
institution of 
proceedings


---- PAGE 0158 ----

156
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(4) The Attorney-General shall be entitled to institute 
proceedings under this Part, notwithstanding the death of 
the convicted accused:
  Provided however, the Attorney-General shall cite 
the heir, administrator or executor as the case may be, if any, 
of the deceased convicted accused as a Respondent. 
(5) The person convicted of having committed the 
unlawful activity shall be cited as a Respondent. Any other 
person from whose possession or dominion such property 
was seized who has presented a claim in respect of such 
property during proceedings for the judicial freezing of the 
property, including the victim of crime shall also be cited as 
Respondents.
  121. Following the filing of action for post-conviction 
forfeiture the Court shall direct the Attorney-General to –
	 (a)	 publish a notice in the form and manner directed 
by Court; 
	 (b)	 to serve a copy of the application together with 
the notice to any victim of crime who has been 
deprived of the proceeds of crime due to the 
committing of the unlawful activity;
	 (c)	 to serve the application on the convicted accused 
and such other persons who may have presented 
claims in respect of the property together with a 
notice calling upon such persons to show cause, 
if any, as to why the property in issue shall not 
be forfeited and notifying such person the date 
before which such cause shall be presented to 
court; and 
Notice of 
Proceedings


---- PAGE 0159 ----

157
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (d)	 serve a copy of the Notice to the Authority, and 
the Receiver or the Special Manager, if any, 
appointed by court to protect, preserve, and 
manage the relevant property.
122. (1) Any party who is a respondent to the action or 
any other party having legal entitlement to claim the property 
that is sought to be forfeited including the victim of crime, 
if any, shall be entitled within the time period specified in 
the notice under section 121 to file a statement of objections 
together with an affidavit and duly authenticated supporting 
evidence for the purpose of satisfying court that-
	 (a)	  the property shall not be forfeited; and 
	 (b) 	such property shall be released to the relevant 
claimant.
(2) Where one or more of the respondents or claimants 
file statement of objections, the petitioner shall be entitled 
to file counter objections together with any other supporting 
evidence.
123. (1) An inquiry in terms of this Part of this Act shall be 
conducted by the examination of affidavit and documentary 
evidence: 
  Provided however, for reasons to be recorded, the Court 
may in exceptional circumstances permit the presentation of 
oral and documentary evidence, in which event the rules 
pertaining to examination of witnesses and presentation 
of documentary evidence as contained in the Evidence 
Ordinance shall apply. 
  (2) Following the filing of the afore-stated material, the 
court shall take up the matter for inquiry. The Court shall 
Inquiry
Statement of 
objections


---- PAGE 0160 ----

158
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
initially consider whether the Attorney-General has made 
out a prima facie case to satisfy court that the property in 
respect of which the application has been filed is proceeds of 
crime in respect of which a person has been convicted. For 
the purpose of arriving at such finding, the Court may take 
into consideration- 
	 (a)	 the evidence placed before court during the trial;
	 (b)	 notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Ordinance 
and section 110 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act, notes of investigations including 
the statements recorded during the course of 
the investigation into the committing of the 
unlawful activity including statements made by 
the convicted person;
	 (c)	 the judgment pronounced by the trial court that 
convicted the accused for having committed the 
unlawful activity; and 
	 (d)	 any other evidence which the Court shall deem 
necessary considering the interest of justice.
(3) If after inquiry, if the court is satisfied that the 
Attorney-General has made out a prima facie case, the Court 
shall call upon the Respondents to show cause as to why 
the Attorney-General’s application shall not be allowed and 
hence as to why the property shall not be forfeited.
(4) Where the court is not satisfied that the Attorney-
General has made out a prima facie case, the Court shall 
dismiss the application without calling on the respondents 
to show cause, and make order vacating the judicial freezing 
order, if any, previously made in respect of the relevant 
property in terms of this Act. The Court shall also make a 


---- PAGE 0161 ----

159
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
suitable order for the release the property to the party entitled 
to such property.
(5) Where the respondents show cause, the Court shall 
conduct further inquiry into the matter. 
(6) If following inquiry, the Court is satisfied on a balance 
of probabilities that the property in respect of which the 
application for forfeiture has been filed is-
	 (a)	 the proceeds of crime;
	 (b)	 property of the corresponding value of the 
proceeds of crime; or
	 (c) 	that no victim of unlawful activity or claimant 
exists who has the legal entitlement to take 
possession of such property, 
make order for the forfeiture of the property, the security 
deposited, or the proceeds of the disposal of the property 
pending trial or forfeiture proceedings in respect of which 
such application has been made.
  (7) If following inquiry, the Court is satisfied on a balance 
of probabilities that the Respondent to the application or the 
claimant has a lawful claim for the property in respect of 
which the proceedings has been instituted, the Court shall 
make order for the release of the property or the value 
thereof to such party.
  (8) An order made in terms of this Act for-
	 (a)	 dismissal of the application; 
	 (b)	 forfeiture of the property; or 


---- PAGE 0162 ----

160
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c)	 release of the property to the Respondent or 
claimant, 
shall be deemed to be a final order and any party aggrieved 
by such order shall be entitled to appeal against such order 
to the Court of Appeal within a period of fourteen days from 
the date of such order, following the procedure contained in 
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.
(9) The Court which pronounces the order for forfeiture 
or release of the property, shall record reasons for such order.
(10) The Proceedings in terms of this part of this Act 
for a determination on the forfeiture of proceeds of crime 
may be conducted notwithstanding the relevant property 
having been disposed of pending trial and the value thereof 
recovered.
(11) The proceedings in terms of this part of this Act 
may be conducted for the recovery of the value of financial 
benefits derived by the committing of the unlawful activity.
(12) It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to make 
an application to the trial Court in terms of this Part of this 
Act for the forfeiture of proceeds of crime or the property 
of the corresponding value of such proceeds of crime, 
notwithstanding –
	 (a)	 the unlawful activity having been committed 
prior to the coming into operation of this Act; or
	 (b)	 the property in issue not having been restrained, 
seized, or frozen in terms of this Act.


---- PAGE 0163 ----

161
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(13) Where a person has been convicted for having 
committed an unlawful activity which constitute an offence 
under and in terms of the Anti-Corruption Act, the entitlement 
conferred on the Attorney-General in this Part of this Act 
shall be exercised by the Director-General of Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption on the 
direction of the Commission or by the Attorney-General on 
a request by the Commission to Investigate Allegations of 
Bribery or Corruption or by any Attorney-at-Law specially 
authorized by the Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption under section 65 of the Anti- 
Corruption Act.
(14) If during proceedings under this Part of this Act, on 
evidence placed before Court and further evidence, if any,
called for and examined by court, the court becomes satisfied 
that the property in respect of which forfeiture proceedings 
has been instituted comprises partly of proceeds of crime 
and partly of property which does not constitute proceeds 
of crime, the court shall obtain a valuation of such property 
and determine the percentage value of such property which 
constitutes proceeds of crime and make order for forfeiture 
only in respect of such value which amounts to proceeds of 
crime.
(15) Where one or more parties present a claim in respect 
of such property and as provided in this Act on a balance of 
probability establish such claim, the court shall direct that 
the percentage value of such property corresponding to such 
established claim which does not relate to proceeds of crime 
become the entitlement of such claimant. 
(16) The court shall direct the disposal of such property 
in the manner provided by this Act and upon realization of 
the value thereof direct the Registrar of the court to make 
payment in the sum determined by the court to the claimant 


---- PAGE 0164 ----

162
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Value based 
forfeiture
and direct the forfeiture of the remaining sum of money 
which corresponds to the percentage value of the proceeds 
of crime to be forfeited to the state.
124. (1) Following the prosecution and conviction of 
a person for having committed an unlawful activity, if it 
appears that the proceeds of such unlawful activity– 
	 (a)	 has not been traced or specifically identified 
notwithstanding diligent attempts to identify 
and trace such property;  
	 (b)	 has been destroyed, decayed or become 
worthless; 
	 (c)	 has been substantially altered;
 
	 (d)	 has been sold; 
	 (e)	 has got intermingled with other property and is 
therefore not possible or difficult to be separated; 
	 (f)	 has been transferred outside Sri Lanka; 
	 (g)	 has been otherwise subjected to money 
laundering; 
	 (h)	 has been used by a convict or such other person 
and is therefore no longer available;  
	 (i)	 has undergone change due to whatsoever 
reason and hence its value has diminished to 
an insignificant amount or has lost its original 
utility or commercial value; 
	 (j)	 has assumed the form of a benefit, a gain, a 


---- PAGE 0165 ----

163
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
service or an advantage which is measurable 
monetarily; 
	 (k)	 has not been seized or frozen due to such action 
having the potential of causing a significant 
impact on the national economy, or adverse 
impact on the interests of a bona-fide third party; 
or 
	 (l)	 is available in a place outside the jurisdiction of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
the Attorney-General may make an application to court -
(i) 	 for an order for the convicted accused to 
pay a sum of money as determined to be 
the value of the proceeds of crime called 
substituted money forfeiture; or
(ii) 	for an order for the forfeiture of a 
property of the convicted accused which 
is of comparable monetary value called 
substituted property forfeiture.
(2) (a) When determining the value of the property to 
be subjected to an order of substituted property forfeiture 
and the monetary value of the substituted money forfeiture, 
the Court may take into account the appreciation or the 
fluctuation of the value of the original proceeds of crime due 
to the passage of time and the potential of such proceeds of 
crime being used for investment or business purposes.   
(b) For such purpose, the Attorney-General shall be 
required to identify the property of the convicted accused 
which may be subjected to such forfeiture. 


---- PAGE 0166 ----

164
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(3) The procedure to be followed with such forfeiture 
proceedings shall mutatis mutandis be the procedure with 
regard to post-conviction forfeiture procedure.    
(4) If it is not possible to identify a property of the convicted 
accused which is of comparable value to the proceeds of 
crime, the Court may on application by the Attorney-General 
direct the convicted accused to make a sworn declaration of 
his properties. Following the submission and consideration 
of such declaration, the Attorney-General may make an 
application in terms of the above-mentioned procedure 
for forfeiture of any property of the convicted accused of 
comparable value based on the information contained in the 
said declaration.
(5) If the afore-stated declaration does not contain 
information pertaining to any property of comparable value, 
the Court may on application by the Attorney-General make 
an order on the convicted accused to pay a sum of money 
equivalent to the value of proceeds of crime.
(6) The afore-stated sum of money ordered by the Court 
shall be recovered in the same manner as a fine imposed by 
Court. 
(7) In proceedings under this Part of this Act for forfeiture 
of value - based proceeds of crime, if any party objects to the 
value or other property derived out of the committing of an 
unlawful activity being forfeited, the Court shall direct such 
claimant to initially submit to court security in the manner 
the court may require to be deposited.
    
(8) If the trial Court following the conviction of the 
accused, when imposing the sentence, had imposed on the 
convicted accused a penalty under the applicable law to an 
amount not less than the value of the relevant proceeds of 


---- PAGE 0167 ----

165
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
crime, the Attorney-General shall not be entitled to institute 
proceedings under this Act for value-based forfeiture of the 
proceeds of crime.
125. (1) Where a property suspected to be  proceeds 
of crime has been investigated into and material collected 
to establish prima-facie that such property is proceeds of 
crime, and such property has been either restrained or seized 
and thereafter frozen in terms of this Act, civil proceedings 
may be thereafter instituted in the High Court in terms of this 
Act, against such property, for the forfeiture of such property 
suspected to be proceeds of crime as provided in this Act. 
Such civil judicial proceedings shall be referred to as non-
conviction based forfeiture proceedings.
(2) For the forfeiture of proceeds of crime in terms of 
non-conviction based forfeiture proceedings, it shall not 
be necessary to prosecute and obtain a conviction against 
the person who had committed the unlawful activity which 
yielded the relevant proceeds of crime. 
(3) The forfeiture proceedings under non-conviction 
based forfeiture proceedings shall not be an alternative 
to the prosecution of a person for having committed the 
corresponding unlawful activity. Where investigations 
yield sufficient evidence, the person who committed the 
corresponding unlawful activity shall be prosecuted in terms 
of the applicable law. 
 
(4) Where a person has been prosecuted and convicted 
of having committed an unlawful activity, and the proceeds 
of such unlawful activity are available, the post–conviction 
forfeiture of proceeds of crime shall be ordinarily enforced 
for the forfeiture of the proceeds of such unlawful activity:
 
Provided however, parallel to or in the absence of 
the Attorney-General instituting criminal proceedings and 
General provisions 
for non-conviction 
based forfeiture


---- PAGE 0168 ----

166
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
prosecuting the offender responsible for having committed 
the unlawful activity, it shall be lawful for proceedings to 
be instituted and carried out in terms of this Act in respect 
of the proceeds of such unlawful activity, provided the 
requirements contained in this Act relating to non-conviction 
based forfeiture of proceeds of crime have been satisfied.
(5) The High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka holden 
in the judicial zone of Colombo shall have jurisdiction 
to entertain and adjudicate upon an application for 
non-conviction based forfeiture of proceeds of crime 
notwithstanding the location of such property being outside 
the territorial jurisdiction of such court:
 
Provided however, where the Chief Justice on 
an application by the Attorney-General directs that an 
application for non-conviction based forfeiture of proceeds 
of crime shall be entertained and adjudicated by a High 
Court of any other judicial zone, such High Court shall have 
jurisdiction: 
Provided further when determining an application 
by the Attorney-General for a direction, the Chief Justice 
shall consider whether due to delays in the conduct and 
completion of hearing for non-conviction based forfeiture 
proceedings whether it may defeat the objectives of this Act, 
and it be desirable for jurisdiction to be vested in a High 
Court not holden in the judicial zone of Colombo. 
(6)  While ordinarily, for the institution of non-conviction 
based forfeiture proceedings, a judicial freezing order shall 
be a prerequisite, if the Attorney-General can establish that 
for reasons beyond the control of the relevant Designated 
Officer or Investigation Officer, it was not possible to obtain 
a judicial freezing order, he shall be entitled to institute 
proceedings for non-conviction based forfeiture even in the 
absence of a judicial freezing order.


---- PAGE 0169 ----

167
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
  (7) 	 For the successful forfeiture of proceeds of crime, 
the High Court shall on a balance of probability be satisfied 
that, the property in respect of which the action has been 
instituted is proceeds of crime.
(8)  The non-conviction based forfeiture proceedings 
may be instituted even where criminal proceedings had been 
instituted against the person accused of having committed 
the corresponding unlawful activity and he had been 
acquitted or discharged at the trial or appellate stage. 
 
(9) If the proceeds of an unlawful activity which comes 
within the jurisdiction of this Act is found outside Sri Lanka, 
non–conviction based forfeiture proceedings in respect of 
such property may be instituted in the High Court, without 
any initial steps of restrain, seizure or judicial freezing 
having taken place in terms of this Act.
 (10) Where a person who has committed an unlawful 
activity either within or outside Sri Lanka, is convicted by 
a court of competent jurisdiction of another country and the 
proceeds of such unlawful activity is found in Sri Lanka, 
non-conviction based forfeiture proceedings in respect of 
such property may be instituted and carried out, without the 
initial steps of the restraint, seizure or judicial freezing of 
such property taking place in terms of this Act. 
    
(11) In view of the need to ensure that action in terms 
of this Act does not cause a serious impact on the national 
economy or public interest, it shall be lawful for the 
Attorney-General to institute non-conviction based forfeiture 
proceedings in the High Court notwithstanding the property 
in respect of which proceedings are being instituted have not 
been subjected to any prior restraining, preservation, seizure 
or judicial freezing: 


---- PAGE 0170 ----

168
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Situations where 
non-conviction 
based forfeiture 
proceedings can be 
instituted
Provided however, following the filing of the 
application for the commencement of proceedings for non-
conviction based forfeiture of suspected proceeds of crime, 
the Attorney-General shall satisfy the High Court that 
prima-facie the property in respect of which action has been 
instituted is proceeds of crime. 
126. (1) Non-conviction based forfeiture proceedings 
can be instituted in the following circumstances and is not 
limited to these circumstances:- 
	 (a)	 where 
the 
person 
who 
committed 
the 
corresponding unlawful activity is dead, dies 
during trial, is a fugitive from justice, has 
immunity from criminal prosecution or his 
prosecution is not otherwise possible, or such 
perpetrator cannot be identified or is unknown;
	 (b)	 the proceeds of crime has been inherited, 
otherwise received or procured or is being held 
by a third party; 
	
	 (c)	 a prosecution cannot be conducted against the 
perpetrator of the unlawful activity, since the 
committing of offence has been prescribed 
under the Prescription Ordinance (Chapter 68);
	 (d)	 there is no or insufficient evidence to institute 
criminal proceedings against the person who 
committed the unlawful activity and to prosecute 
him successfully; 
	 (e)	 where no investigation has been conducted or 
the conduct of an investigation has not been 
possible into the committing of the unlawful 
activity which yielded the relevant proceeds of 
crime; 


---- PAGE 0171 ----

169
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (f)	 where a person subject to the jurisdiction of 
this Act has committed an unlawful activity in 
another country and the offender has not been 
prosecuted or been convicted in that country, 
and the proceeds of the unlawful activity are 
found in Sri Lanka or elsewhere; 
	 (g)	 where a person subject to the jurisdiction of 
Sri Lanka has committed an unlawful activity 
within or outside Sri Lanka and the proceeds 
of such unlawful activity is found outside Sri 
Lanka; 
	 (h)	 where the proceeds of an unlawful activity 
which comes within the jurisdiction of this Act 
is found outside Sri Lanka;
	 (i)	 where a person who has committed an unlawful 
activity either within or outside Sri Lanka, is 
convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction 
of another country and the proceeds of such 
unlawful activity is found within Sri Lanka; 
	  (j)	 where the restrained, seized, or frozen property 
is- 
(i)	 only partly the proceeds of an unlawful 
activity, or 
(ii)	 comprises of components derived out 
of the committing of several unlawful 
activities, or 
(iii)	is a combination of property specified in 
subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph; 
or


---- PAGE 0172 ----

170
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (k)	 where a property suspected to be  proceeds of 
crime has been investigated into and no person 
has claimed ownership of such property, a 
person has presented a claim in respect of such 
property and later withdrawn it, or no person has 
made any claim in respect of such property. In 
this category, proceedings for non – conviction 
based forfeiture may be instituted without a 
prior restraint, seizure or judicial freezing of 
such property.  
(2) Unless specifically provided by the provisions of this 
Act, no property shall be immune from proceedings in terms 
of this Act for non–conviction based forfeiture of proceeds 
of crime.    
127. (1) Following the completion of an investigation into 
property suspected to be proceeds of crime and ordinarily 
a judicial freezing order has been made by the High Court 
in respect of such property, the Attorney-General or the 
Director-General of Commission to Investigate Allegations 
of Bribery or Corruption as the case may be, may institute 
proceedings in the High Court under this Part of this Act 
against such property, by filing an application, praying such 
High Court to make an order for the forfeiture to the state of 
such property or its return to its lawful owner or to the party 
having entitlement to its possession. 
(2) The contents of such application shall be supported 
by an affidavit by the relevant Investigation Officer and to 
the application shall be attached any such document or other 
evidence as may be necessary to establish prima facie that 
the property in respect of which the application is made is 
proceeds of crime.
(3) The Attorney-General shall not be entitled to institute 
proceedings under this provision seeking an order of non-
Non-conviction 
based forfeiture 
proceedings


---- PAGE 0173 ----

171
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
conviction based forfeiture of  proceeds of crime, unless a 
notice had been served in terms of section 68 of this Act and 
the person to whom such notice had been served had defaulted 
in submitting an explanation in the manner provided by this 
Act, or the explanation provided by the person to whom the 
notice has been served for reasons recorded being rejected by 
the Investigation Officer, which rejection had been approved 
by the corresponding Designated Officer:
Provided however, if the explanation provided 
by recipient of the Notice is partially accepted by the 
Investigation Officer, the Attorney-General shall be entitled 
to institute proceedings with regard to the value of the portion 
of the property in respect of which a valid explanation has 
not been provided.
(4) Upon a filing of an application, the High Court shall 
direct the relevant Designated Officer to publish a notice in 
the manner directed by Court. 
(5) The notice pertaining to the filing of the application 
shall be issued to the following parties and to any other party 
the High Court deems necessary:-
	 (a)	 the person from whose custody the relevant 
property was seized by an investigation officer;
	 (b)	 the victim of crime from whom the property is 
believed to have been taken;
	 (c)	 any person who may have been directly affected 
by the judicial freezing of the property; and 
	 (d)	 any party who may have a claim in respect of the 
property.


---- PAGE 0174 ----

172
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
 (6) The High Court shall in notice pertaining to the filing 
of the application, announce the date before which any 
party seeking the return, possession or entitlement to use or 
control the frozen property shall present its claims to Court. 
The period granted by the Court for the presentation of 
claims shall be not less than six weeks from the publication 
or delivery of such notice, whichever occurs later.
(7) Any party, including a party to whom the notice 
pertaining to the filing of the application has not been served, 
seeking a declaration of any right or interest or entitlement to 
possess or use a frozen property, shall be entitled to present 
its claim in that regard to the High Court. 
(8) A claim presented to the High Court under this Part of 
this Act shall be in the form of a statement of claim together 
with an affidavit and necessary evidentiary documents 
attached thereto. 
(9) The Competent Authority of any sovereign state shall 
be entitled to present a claim with regard to a frozen property 
on the premise that such property has been derived out of the 
committing of an unlawful activity in relation to the public 
funds or other property of such country: 
Provided that, the High Court shall not entertain any 
such claim by a competent authority of any sovereign state, 
unless the claimant attaches to such claim a certificate issued 
by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the 
subject of Foreign Affairs, certifying that an agreement exists 
bilaterally, through multi-lateral treaty or through any other 
form of arrangement for international cooperation pertaining 
to the return of proceeds of crime and that such agreement 
remains in force.  


---- PAGE 0175 ----

173
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(10) It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to make 
an application under this section on behalf of the competent 
authority of any sovereign state.
(11) Upon the filing of claims, the Court shall afford an 
opportunity to all parties to study each other’s claims and if 
they wish file statements of objections accompanied with an 
affidavit and supporting documents, if any, or counter claims 
in the manner provided with regard to claims. 
(12) Following the filing of claims, counter claims and 
statements of objections, the High Court shall fix the matter 
for inquiry, and upon the conduct of such inquiry, determine 
whether the property in respect of which the application has 
been filed shall be forfeited or shall be released to a party 
entitled in law to its possession or use.
 
(13) In an Inquiry conducted under this section, oral 
evidence shall be led, only if under exceptional circumstances 
the Court grants permission in that regard on the basis that 
such oral evidence is necessary for the determination of the 
matter.
(14) In proceedings under this section, the High Court 
may apply the presumption contained in section 34 for the 
purpose of determining whether the property in respect of 
which proceedings have been instituted is proceeds of crime, 
and determining the legitimacy of a claim by any person for 
the release of the property in respect of which proceedings 
have been instituted.  
 
(15) A party seeking to gain control or possession of the 
property in respect of which action has been instituted, shall 
establish a lawful claim on a balance of probability and to a 
threshold which exceeds the threshold that may have been 
established by any other claimant.


---- PAGE 0176 ----

174
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(16) If following inquiry, the High Court forms the view 
that the property in respect of which proceedings have been 
instituted is a property of any particular victim of crime, 
the Court shall make order directing that the property be 
returned to such victim of crime. 
(17) If the High Court following inquiry determines that –
	 (a)	 no claimant party has on a balance of probability 
established a lawful claim for the release of the 
property; or
	 (b)	 no valid claim has been presented to Court by a 
victim of the corresponding unlawful activity, or 
by the competent authority of a foreign state in 
terms of this Act; and 
	 (c)	 on a balance of probability the property in 
respect of which the application has been filed is 
proceeds of crime,
 
the High Court shall make order forfeiting the property. 
(18) If following inquiry, the High Court determines 
that only a portion in respect of which proceedings have 
been instituted under this section for non-conviction based 
forfeiture of proceeds of crime, the Court shall following the 
determination of the value of the relevant proceeds of crime 
make Order that the property be forfeited to the state and the 
state making a payment to the party entitled to the remaining 
portion of the value.  
(19) If the High Court directs that a claimant has on a 
balance of probability presented a lawful claim for such 
property, the High Court shall make order directing that the 
property in respect of which proceedings were instituted be 
released to such claimant.


---- PAGE 0177 ----

175
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(20) If the High Court determines that the property in 
respect of which proceedings have been instituted belongs 
to a claimant who is a victim of the corresponding crime, 
it shall make order releasing the property to such victim of 
crime. 
(21) If the High Court determines that the property in 
respect of which the proceedings have been instituted is 
the public property of a requesting foreign state which has 
through its competent authority presented a claim, it shall 
make order subject to the provisions contained in this Act, 
releasing the property or part thereof or its value to the 
requesting foreign state.
. 
(22) If the Court makes an order for forfeiture of the 
property, it shall be forfeited to the state and the Secretary to 
the Treasury shall take possession thereof and deal with such 
property in terms of this Act. 
(23) If the Court is of the view that a claimant has on a 
balance of probability established that he is the lawful owner 
of such property, the Court shall vacate the judicial freezing 
order and release such property to such claimant.
(24) The forfeiture of any property in terms of the non–
conviction based forfeiture of proceeds of crime procedure 
contained in this Act, shall not be deemed as a punishment or 
as any penalty imposed on any person, and by virtue of such 
forfeiture, no person shall be subjected to any disqualification 
or other sanction. 
  
(25) If during proceedings under this section, on evidence 
placed before Court and further evidence, if any, called for 
and examined by court, the court becomes satisfied that the 
property in respect of which forfeiture proceedings has been 
instituted comprises partly of proceeds of crime and partly 


---- PAGE 0178 ----

176
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
of property which does not constitute proceeds of crime, the 
court shall obtain a valuation of such property and determine 
the percentage value of such property which constitutes 
proceeds of crime.
 
(26) Where one or more parties present a claim in respect 
of such property and as provided in this Act on a balance of 
probability establish such claim, the court shall direct that 
the percentage value of such property corresponding to such 
established claim which does not relate to proceeds of crime 
become the entitlement of such claimant. 
(27) The court shall direct the disposal of such property 
in the manner provided by this Act and upon realization of 
the value thereof direct the Registrar of the court to make 
payment in the sum determined by the court to the claimant 
and direct the forfeiture of the remaining sum of money 
which corresponds to the percentage value of the proceeds 
of crime to be forfeited to the state.
128. (1) If upon the conclusion of the inquiry into 
proceeds of crime the court makes an order for forfeiture of 
the property, the court shall direct the Authority, Receiver 
or the Special Manager as the case may be to release the 
property to the party stipulated by court: 
Provided however, if the Court is of the view that 
notwithstanding the forfeiture of the property to the state, 
such property shall be protected, preserved and managed for 
a further period of time as the Court shall deem fit, for reasons 
to be recorded, the court shall direct the Authority, Receiver 
or the Special Manager as the case may be to continue to 
provide protection, preservation and management of the 
property upon such terms and conditions the court shall 
deem fit.
Provisions
common to 
post-conviction 
forfeiture of 
proceeds of 
crime and 
non-conviction
based forfeiture
of proceeds of 
crime following 
the order of
forfeiture 


---- PAGE 0179 ----

177
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) Following forfeiture of the property to the state, 
the High Court shall direct the Authority, the Receiver 
or the Special Manager as the case may be to dispose of 
the property through public auction or any other means 
of disposal recommended by the Authority and approved 
by Court, subject to the terms of this Act and any other 
conditions the Court may impose: 
Provided however, if the property has been already 
disposed of pending forfeiture proceedings, it shall not be 
necessary for Court to make a post-forfeiture disposal order.
 
(3) If the Authority, Receiver or the Special Manager 
reports to Court that in view of the present condition or 
attendant circumstances relating to the property, the disposal 
of such property may not be possible or may not give rise to 
the realization of true value of such property, and the Court 
is satisfied of such reason, the court may make necessary 
orders to relevant Competent Authorities of the Government 
with regard to the property, so as to enable the disposal of 
the property through public auction and realization of true 
value thereof. 
Provided however, if the Court is of the view that given 
the attendant circumstances, the disposal of the property 
will not be in any event possible, the Court shall make an 
appropriate order transferring the property to a Competent 
Authority of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(4) The Authority, Receiver or Special Manager as the 
case may be shall on the direction of the court dispose of the 
property and upon realization of the value thereof credit the 
said sum of money to the account titled Proceeds of Disposal 
of Proceeds of Crime of the Authority.  


---- PAGE 0180 ----

178
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(5) Following the receipt of the money realized from 
the disposal of the forfeited property, the Authority shall 
disburse the said funds in the manner provided for in this 
Act.  
(6) If at the time the Court is required to make an order 
for the disbursement of monies arising out of the disposal 
of forfeited proceeds of crime, the Authority has not been 
established or is in capable of performing its functions in 
terms of this Act, the Court shall direct that the proceeds 
of disposal be remitted to a separate account maintained by 
Court, and shall thereafter disburse such funds in the manner 
this Act has stipulated that the Authority disburse such funds.
PART VII
Civil  Remedy For Victims Of Crime
129. (1) Where any person has committed an unlawful 
activity and such activity has resulted directly or indirectly 
in pecuniary, sentimental or other loss or deprivation of any 
benefit, service or other entitlement, the party adversely 
affected by such unlawful activity, any other person being 
so affected including the state shall be entitled to recover the 
pecuniary, sentimental, or other loss or damage suffered by 
such party.
 
(2) A plaintiff claiming damages and compensation 
founded upon the cause of action referred to in the subsection 
(1) shall institute civil action in the relevant District Court 
and shall be required to establish his case by proving the 
ingredients of the offence which constitute the relevant 
unlawful activity on a balance of probabilities. 
Cause of action 
to recover the 
pecuniary, 
sentimental, or 
other loss or 
damage
suffered by a party 
from an unlawful 
activity


---- PAGE 0181 ----

179
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(3) For the purpose of successfully prosecuting a civil 
action founded upon the cause of action referred to above, 
it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to establish that 
defendant has been convicted of having committed unlawful 
activity or that the proceeds of the unlawful activity have 
been traced, identified or recovered.
(4) The entitlement to institute civil proceedings 
founded upon the cause of action referred to above shall 
be independent of any criminal investigation, criminal 
prosecution or the outcome thereof.
Illustration
	 (a)	 X who is the accountant of a company commits 
criminal breach of trust and with the proceeds of 
such unlawful activity purchases a motor vehicle. 
The company complaints to the Police. The Police 
may or may not commence taking action against X 
in terms of this Act and other provisions of the law. 
Independent of the action taken or otherwise by the 
Police and or the institution of criminal proceedings 
against X, the company shall be entitled to institute 
civil action against X invoking the afore-stated cause 
of action for the purpose of recovering pecuniary 
loss suffered by it as a result of the committing of the 
afore-stated unlawful activity. 
	 (b)	 X commits the offence of corruption with regard 
to funds allocated for a particular public purpose. 
This results in reduction of funds available for the 
afore-stated public purpose by a specific amount or 
percentage. Consequentially the reduction in the 
benefit to the community for whose benefit the public 
purpose was to be given effect to is calculated either 
in monetary terms or in a quantified reduction of the 


---- PAGE 0182 ----

180
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
scheduled public purpose. Thus, those who have 
suffered pecuniary or sentimental loss, deprivation of 
the envisaged service, facility, or benefit as a result of 
the unlawful activity carried out by X, shall be entitled 
to sue X either jointly or severally for the purpose of 
obtaining damages or compensation to commensurate 
the loss or damage suffered.
	 (c)	 X commits an act of corruption which does not result 
in personal financial gain to him. Notwithstanding X 
not having personally gained from the committing of 
such unlawful activity, any party adversely affected 
by such unlawful activity shall be entitled to sue X, 
to recover pecuniary or sentimental loss directly or 
indirectly suffered by them as a result of the afore-
stated unlawful activity.
(5)  An action under this Part of this Act for loss or damages, 
shall be instituted in accordance with the provisions of the 
Civil Procedure Code and such action shall be procedurally 
governed by the provisions of that Code.
(6) Where more than one person has suffered loss or 
damages due to an unlawful activity committed by another 
person as referred to in subsection (1) - 
	 (a)	  either one or more of such persons, or 
	 (b) 	an 
incorporated 
or 
unincorporated 
body 
representing such persons,
who have suffered loss or damages due to such unlawful 
activity may with the consent of such of the persons being 
represented as those having suffered loss or damages, 
institute proceedings in terms of this Part for the purpose 
of recovering damages or compensation in respect of loss 


---- PAGE 0183 ----

181
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Institution of 
action for civil 
remedy by civil 
society
organization for
the benefit of 
the victims
suffered by such parties as a result of the committing of the 
unlawful activity. 
(7) Unless the evidence of a person who is knowledgeable 
and specially skilled with regard to pecuniary and 
sentimental loss suffered by the plaintiff as a result of the 
committing of the unlawful activity is presented to court by 
the plaintiff, the court may at its discretion call one or more 
such persons who is knowledgeable and specially skilled for 
the purpose of assisting court regarding the determination 
of loss or damages suffered by the plaintiff or parties being 
represented by such plaintiff. 
(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the 
Prescription Ordinance (Chapter 68), an action in terms of 
this Part shall be instituted within three years from the date 
on which the plaintiff became aware of the committing of an 
unlawful activity which resulted in loss or damage suffered 
by such plaintiff. 
(9) The provisions of this Part shall be in addition to and 
not in derogation of any right or remedy provided by any 
other Part of this Act, and any other written or unwritten law.
(10) In an action filed under this Part, the Court shall in 
computing the award of compensation or damages, take into 
consideration any other interim or final payments already 
received or any other relief obtained by the plaintiff or other 
affected parties on whose behalf the action has been filed by 
the plaintiff. 
130. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 
(6) of section 129, any non-politically aligned registered or 
incorporated civil society organization may in good faith and 
solely for the benefit of the victims of any unlawful activity 
including the state, be entitled to institute proceedings in 
terms of this Part.


---- PAGE 0184 ----

182
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) Following the institution of such action and not later 
than fourteen days, the plaintiff non-politically aligned civil 
society organization shall publish in the media including in 
a national newspaper each in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages a notice announcing the institution of such action. 
(3) Any victim of the subject matter complained of being 
an unlawful activity shall have the right to intervene into 
such action upon satisfaction of court on a prima facie basis 
that such victim has an interest in such action and the court 
being so satisfied shall add such victim as a party to such 
action.
(4) The court when entering judgment and decree in an 
action filed under this section in addition to the requirements 
of the section 184 of the Civil Procedure Code, shall specify 
the person who shall be entitled to receive damages or 
compensation ordered by court and if the plaintiff is not a 
victim of the unlawful activity the plaintiff shall only be 
entitled to recover the cost of litigation.
PART VIII
Disposal Of Forfeited Proceeds Of Crime And The 
Utilization Of The Value Derived Thereof 
131. (1) Following an order for the frozen proceeds of 
crime to be forfeited to the state, the High Court shall direct 
the Authority to obtain a valuation of the property and have 
such property disposed of through public auction or any other 
means of disposal to be recommended by the Authority and 
approved by court through which the value of the property 
could be derived. Such disposal shall be supervised by court.
Disposal of 
forfeited
proceeds of crime


---- PAGE 0185 ----

183
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) Following the disposal of the property in the manner 
directed by court the Authority shall credit such amount 
recovered from such disposal to an account titled Proceeds 
of Disposal of Proceeds of Crime and make an application 
to court for an order directing the manner in which such sum 
of money is to be disbursed. 
(3) Following an application made in terms of subsection 
(2) by the Authority the court shall take into consideration 
the following among other factors which the court deems 
necessary, and make an order for the disbursement of the 
value derived by the disposal of the forfeited property:-
	 (a)	 whether the unlawful activity that had been 
committed which yielded the relevant proceeds 
of crime can be identified and if so, the category 
of persons who may have suffered due to the 
committing of the unlawful activity;
	 (b)	 whether subject to the following conditions, the 
value derived by the disposal of the forfeited 
property shall in its entirety be transferred to the 
consolidated fund-
(i)	 whether the forfeited property in part 
contains a lawfully procured property, 
which is inseparable from the proceeds of 
crime; 
(ii)	 whether the value derived by the disposal 
of the forfeited property shall be remitted 
to a requesting state that had by either 
itself or its people or institutions suffered a 
loss due to the committing of the relevant 
unlawful activity;


---- PAGE 0186 ----

184
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c)	 any other matter which the High Court deems 
relevant.
(4) Where the Court determines that the unlawful activity 
that had been committed which yielded the relevant proceeds 
of crime can be identified and if so, the category of persons 
who may have suffered loss due to the committing of the 
unlawful activity is identified, the Court shall direct the 
Authority:-
	 (a)	 to transfer eighty per centum of the value derived 
by the disposal of the property to the Victims of 
Crime Reparation Trust Fund; 
	 (b)	 to retain ten per centum of the value derived by 
the disposal of the property and transfer such 
some of money to the Protection, Preservation 
and Management of Proceeds of Crime Fund;
	 (c)	 to retain ten per centum of the value derived by 
the disposal of the property and transfer such 
sum of money from time to time to the Attorney-
General, Sri Lanka Police and the Commission to 
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption 
for the following purposes:-
(i)	 training and capacity building of legal 
officers and law enforcement personnel; 
(ii)	 procuring of equipment necessary for 
investigation, tracing and identification of 
proceeds of crime;
(iii)	resources necessary for seizure, temporary 
custody, and enforcement of restraining 
orders pertaining to proceeds of crime; 


---- PAGE 0187 ----

185
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(iv)	for activities necessary for the prevention 
of persons deriving benefit out of the 
committing of the unlawful activity; 
(v)	 making necessary payments with regard 
to obtaining or procuring professional 
services of local or foreign competent 
persons or institutions and organizations 
pertaining to the conduct of money flow 
investigations, financial analysis, forensic 
accounting, forensic auditing, accessing 
of 
commercial 
data 
bases, 
tracing, 
identification, search, and examination 
of property suspected to be or containing 
proceeds of crime; and
(vi)	any other purpose in furtherance of the 
objectives of this Act.
(5) Where the Court concludes that the category of 
persons who may have suffered loss due to the committing 
of the unlawful activity cannot be identified or that there is 
no evidence that any person has directly suffered any loss 
due to the committing of the unlawful activity, the court 
shall direct the Authority to transfer eighty per centum of 
the value derived by the disposal of the forfeited property 
to the Consolidated Fund to be utilized in terms of the law 
as directed by the Parliament. The remaining twenty per 
centum shall be utilized in the manner set out in paragraphs 
(b) and (c) of subsection (4) of this section.
(6) Where the Court concludes that the forfeited property 
contains in part a licit property, which is inseparable from 
the proceeds derived from committing an unlawful activity, 
the Court shall compute the value of the licit component of 


---- PAGE 0188 ----

186
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
the forfeited proceeds of crime, and direct the Authority to 
transfer such amount to the party identified by court to have 
a lawful claim for such property.
(7) Where the Court concludes that the value derived by 
the disposal of the forfeited property shall be remitted to a 
requesting state that had either by itself or through its people 
or institutions suffered loss due to the committing of the 
relevant unlawful activity, the Court shall direct the Authority 
to in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry of the 
Minister assigned the subject of Foreign Affairs, transfer the 
relevant sum of money to the Competent Authority of such 
requesting state subject to compliance with paragraphs (b) 
and (c) of subsection (4) of this section.
PART IX
Victims Of Crime Reparation Trust Fund
132. (1) There shall be a Trust created by the operation of 
this Act called the Victims of Crime Reparation Trust Fund 
(in this Act referred to as the “Trust Fund”). 
(2) The Trust Fund shall be a part of the Consolidated 
Fund.
(3) Objectives of the Trust Fund shall be to-
	 (a)	 upon a consideration of the following:-
(i)	 the order made by the High Court 
regarding the category of victims of crime 
to be reparated; and
Victims of Crime 
Reparation Trust 
Fund


---- PAGE 0189 ----

187
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Funds of the Trust 
Fund
 (ii)	the manner in which the committing of 
the unlawful activity which gave rise to 
the relevant proceeds of crime that have 
been forfeited had affected the afore-stated 
category of victims of crime,
 
to formulate suitable reparatory, developmental, or 
welfare activity to be implemented for the benefit of 
such victims of crime.
 
	
	
Explanation:
	
	
This is for the purpose of mitigating the original 
negative impact which occurred as a result of the 
afore-stated unlawful activity. 
	 (b)	 if any sum of money is remitted to the Trust 
Fund without a specification by court as to the 
affected category of victims of crime, having 
regard to policies of the state, identify suitable 
developmental activities the implementation of 
which is in public interest which may be carried 
out using such funds remitted to the Trust Fund. 
133. The Fund of the Trust Fund shall comprise of the 
following :-
	 (a)	 sums of money remitted by the Authority, on 
a direction of the High Court made in terms of 
paragraphs (a) of subsection (4) of section 131;
	 (b)	 sums of money which the Parliament may vote 
to be remitted to the Trust Fund; and
	 (c)	 sums of money that may be remitted to 
the Government of Sri Lanka by foreign 


---- PAGE 0190 ----

188
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
administrative, law enforcement and judicial 
authorities as being monies accruing from the 
disposal of proceeds of crime to which Sri 
Lanka has an entitlement.
134. The Board of Trustees of the Trust Fund shall 
comprise of the following:-
	 (a) 	the Secretary to the Treasury, who shall be the 
Chairman; and 
	 (b)	 the following six members:-
(i)	 Secretary, Ministry of the Minister or an 
Additional Secretary (Legal) nominated 
by the Secretary, of the Ministry of the 
Minister;
(ii)	 Secretary, Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Social Services 
or an Additional Secretary nominated by 
such Secretary;
(iii)	Deputy Governor in charge of Financial 
System Stability of the Central Bank;
(iv)	Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of 
Commerce or his nominee;
(v)	 two persons of unimpeachable integrity 
and high moral standing nominated by 
reputed non-politically aligned social 
services organizations and appointed 
by the Minister assigned the subject of 
Finance in consultation with the Minister 
and the Minister assigned the subject of 
social services, having recorded reasons 
for their selection. 
The Board of 
Trustees of the 
Trust Fund


---- PAGE 0191 ----

189
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Duties of the Trust 
Fund
135. Duties of the Trustees of the Trust Fund shall be -
	 (a)	 identification and appointment of suitable 
persons to implement the formulated activity, 
having regard to the following:-
(i)	 institutions of the state and non-state 
institutions that may be capable of 
efficaciously implementing such activity; 
(ii)	 obtaining the services of such implementing 
agency on terms most favourable; and
(iii)	ensuring that the assigned funds are not 
subjected to any further unlawful activity 
and the assigned activities are implemented 
in a transparent manner;
	 (b)	 for the purpose of obtaining the services of a 
competent implementing agency on terms most 
favourable call for expression of interests and 
tenders;
	 (c)	 entering into memoranda of understanding with 
state agencies pertaining to implementation 
of the formulated activities and entering into 
contracts with non-state agencies pertaining to 
the same; 
	 (d)	 allocation of funds for the implementation 
of activities, monitoring work progress and 
supervision;
	 (e)	 carry out any other activity that may be necessary 
for the purposes of giving effect to the objectives 
of the Trust Fund;


---- PAGE 0192 ----

190
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (f)	 to obtain the services of officials of the General 
Treasury to assist the Trust Fund to give effect to 
the objectives of the Trust Fund and the duties of 
the Trustees;
	 (g)	 to establish and maintain an account within 
the Consolidated Fund and maintain annual 
financial statement;
	 (h)	 to disclose all information on the implementation 
of reparatory, developmental and welfare 
activities and their progress be quarterly on the 
official website of the Trust Fund;
	 (i)	 to cause auditing of the accounts including the 
annual audits of the Trust Fund by the Auditor-
General; and
	 (j)	 submit to Parliament an annual report and 
publish such annual report in its website.
136. The beneficiaries of the Trust Fund shall be -
	 (a)	 persons who have suffered loss due to the 
committing of the unlawful activities as specified 
in orders made by the High Court;
	 (b)	 persons identified as the affected category of 
victims of crime by the Board of Trustees. 
137. (1) The meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be 
held at least once a month.
(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board of Trustees 
shall be five members. 
Beneficiaries of 
the Trust Fund
The meetings 
and the quorum, 
of the Board of
Trustees


---- PAGE 0193 ----

191
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(3) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the 
Board of Trustees. In the absence of the Chairman from any 
meeting of the Board of Trustees a member elected by the 
members present shall preside at such meeting.
(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board 
of Trustees shall be decided by the vote of the majority of 
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality 
of votes the Chairman or such other member who shall chair 
such meeting, in addition to his vote have a casting vote.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, the 
Board of Trustees may regulate the procedure in relation to 
the meetings of the Board of Trustee and the transaction of 
business at such meetings.
138. (1) The Board of Trustees shall, from time to time, 
appoint an Attorney-at-Law or a Chartered Secretary to either 
full-time or part-time basis function as the Board Secretary 
of the Board of Trustees and determine the remuneration 
payable for such person.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Board Secretary as directed 
by the Chairman or based on a resolution of the Board of 
Trustees to convene meetings of the Board of Trustees.
(3) It shall be the responsibility of the Board Secretary of 
the Board of Trustees to maintain minutes of meetings of the 
Board of Trustees and facilitate the necessary arrangements 
for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Trustees.
139. The Board of Trustees may act notwithstanding any 
vacancy among its members and any act or proceeding of 
the Board of Trustees shall not be or deemed to be invalid 
by reason only of the existence of any vacancy among its 
members or any defect in the appointment of a member 
thereof.
Board Secretary 
of the Board of 
Trustees
Acts or 
proceedings of
the Board of 
Trustees deemed 
not to be invalid 
by reason of any 
vacancy


---- PAGE 0194 ----

192
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
140. The members of the Board of Trustees shall be paid 
remuneration in such manner and at such rates as may be 
determined by the Minister, with the concurrence of the 
Minister assigned the subject of Finance
PART X
International Cooperation
141. (1) The scheme contained in this Part of this Act, 
shall be carried out in terms of the Mutual Assistance in 
Criminal Matters Act. 
(2) Any request for mutual legal assistance received 
by the Central Authority appointed in terms of the Mutual 
Assistance in Criminal Matters Act which relates to proceeds 
of crime shall be forwarded to the Police Designated Officer 
or the Designated Officer of the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption with due regard to the 
assignment of their functions in terms of this Act.
142. Subject to administrative requirements, it shall 
be lawful for a Designated Officer to, for the purposes of 
achieving the objects of this Act, seek and obtain assistance 
from administrative, law enforcement and judicial competent 
authorities of other countries the following:-
	 (a)	 assistance for tracing, identification, search, 
detection 
and 
examination 
of 
property 
suspected to be proceeds of crime and for other 
investigational purposes;
	 (b)	 assistance for gathering evidence including 
documents, witness statements, reports, and 
other material including samples and specimens;
Remuneration
of the members 
of the Board of 
Trustees
Mutual Legal
Assistance
Request by 
Sri Lanka to
competent
authorities of 
other countries


---- PAGE 0195 ----

193
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (c)	 assistance to locate and identify witnesses, 
documents, records, and suspected proceeds of 
crime;
	 (d)	 assistance to facilitate the interview and 
recording of statements of witnesses either in 
person or through a contemporaneous audio-
visual link. Notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in the Assistance to and the Protection 
of Victims of Crimes and Witnesses Act, the 
remote location of such interview may take place 
at the office of the relevant administrative, law 
enforcement or judicial competent authority;
	 (e)	 requests for seizure, judicial freezing and 
forfeiture and return to Sri Lanka proceeds of 
crime or value thereof;
	 (f)	 transmission, service and enforcement of 
judicial orders made by Sri Lankan courts in 
foreign countries;
	 (g)	 cooperation for post-conviction and non-
conviction based forfeiture proceedings and 
related matters;
	 (h)	 service of summons, other processes of court and 
assistance to procure the attendance of witnesses 
at judicial proceedings held in Sri Lanka ;
	 (i)	 assistance with regard to the conduct of 
investigations jointly with foreign administrative 
and law enforcement authorities and related 
counterparts;
	 (j)	 any other matter in respect of which assistance 
is required for the purposes of achieving the 


---- PAGE 0196 ----

194
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
objectives of this Act including ensuing and 
further related assistance on an initial request.
143. A foreign administrative, law enforcement and 
judicial competent authority shall be entitled to request and 
obtain assistance from a Designated Officer in respect of any 
matter pertaining to which a Designated Officer is entitled in 
terms of this Act to obtain assistance from an administrative, 
law enforcement and judicial competent authority of any 
other country.
144. (1) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be 
enforced in pursuance of-
	 (a)	 international, 
regional, 
multi-lateral 
and 
bilateral agreements to which Sri Lanka is a 
party together with the corresponding state; 
	 (b)	 international conventions ratified by Sri Lanka 
and the corresponding state; and
	 (c)	 ad-hoc or case by case basis understanding 
reached by Sri Lanka and the corresponding 
state.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, the Secretary to the 
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Foreign 
Affairs shall be the Competent Authority of Sri Lanka to 
certify the existence of the matters set out in subsection (1). 
(3) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Foreign Affairs shall on a request by the 
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, be competent to 
negotiate with a Competent Authority of any other country 
Mutual 
Cooperation
Request by
foreign
administrative, 
law enforcement
and judicial
competent
authirities of other 
countries to 
Sri Lankan 
counterparts 


---- PAGE 0197 ----

195
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
and enter into regional, multi-lateral and bilateral agreement 
or an ad-hoc or case by case basis understandings for the 
purpose of obtaining mutual cooperation under this Part of 
this Act.
(4) For the purposes of this Part of this Act a Designated 
Officer shall be entitled to initiate a request pertaining to 
matters stated in section 142, which shall be transmitted to 
the competent authority of the recipient state through the 
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject 
of Foreign Affairs.
(5) For the purposes of this Act a request to a foreign 
administrative, law enforcement or judicial authority to 
preserve, restraint, seize, freeze or forfeit proceeds of crime 
shall not be made to a foreign competent authority unless 
such request is sanctioned by the High Court.
(6) A request by a foreign administrative, law enforcement 
or judicial competent authority for investigative assistance 
relating to tracing, identification, and detection of proceeds 
of crime or for any other matter as provided in this Act, shall 
be addressed to the Designated Officer of the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption if the 
unlawful activity which is believed to have resulted in the 
generation of proceeds of crime has originated from the 
committing of acts which constitute an offence under the 
Anti-Corruption Act. Any other request shall be addressed 
to the Police Designated Officer. 
145. For the purposes of the Extradition Law No. 8 of 
1977, the offences contained in this Act shall be deemed to 
be extraditable offences.
Extradition


---- PAGE 0198 ----

196
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
PART XI
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
146. (1) The Minister may make regulations under this 
Act in respect of all matters which are required by this Act to 
be prescribed or in respect of which regulations are required 
or authorized to be made under this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister shall 
on the recommendation of the Designated Officers who 
shall make such recommendations jointly and the Authority, 
and on the advice of the Attorney-General be empowered 
to make Regulations which shall take the form of Standard 
Operating Protocols pertaining to – 
	 (a)	 the manner in which investigations into 
suspected proceeds of crime may be conducted;
	 (b)	 procedure to be following in issuing restraining 
orders and the format of a restraining order;
	 (c)	 the manner in which a seizure shall be carried 
out and the format of the notice of seizure; 
	 (d)	 the conduct of pre-restraining and pre-seizure 
planning; 
	 (e)	 the protection, preservation and management of 
proceeds of crime; 
	 (f)	 the manner in which provisions of the Mutual 
Assistance in Criminal Matters Act may be 
invoked and the manner in which assistance 
to investigations from foreign administrative 
authorities may be obtained; 
Regulations


---- PAGE 0199 ----

197
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	 (g)	 the manner in which a request from a foreign 
competent authority for assistance in the conduct 
of investigations into suspected proceeds of 
crime shall be carried out;
	 (h)	 the manner in which a request for forfeiture 
of proceeds of crime located in Sri Lanka 
pertaining to an unlawful activity committed in 
a foreign country shall be processed and given 
effect to; 
	 (i)	 the manner in which a request for the assistance 
for investigations to be conducted in a foreign 
country shall be made; 
	 (j)	 disposal of perishable and hazardous proceeds 
of crime; 
	 (k)	  the procedure by which the court shall obtain 
valuation of property and determine the value of 
such property; and  
	 (l)	 the procedure by which the auctioning of 
proceeds of crime shall be carried out. 
(3) Upon a Standard Operating Protocol being 
promulgated as a Regulation, such protocol shall have the 
force of law. 
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be 
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the 
date of publication, or on such later date as may be specified 
therein.


---- PAGE 0200 ----

198
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(5) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, 
within three months after its publication in the Gazette, be 
brought before Parliament for approval.
(b) Any regulation which is not so approved shall be 
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, 
but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(6) Notification of the date on which any regulation 
made by the Minister is deemed to be so rescinded shall be 
published in the Gazette.
147. Where there is any inconsistency between a provision 
of this Act and the provision of any other law, the provision 
of this Act shall prevail over the provision of such other law.
 
148. No Designated Officer or an Investigation Officer 
or any other police officer or an officer of the Commission 
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption who 
has acted on the instructions of a Designated Officer or 
an Investigation Officer, who has acted in good faith and 
diligently for the purposes of this Act, shall be liable in any 
suit or other legal proceedings for any lawful act which is 
done or purported to be done in good faith by such officer, 
in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under this Act, 
or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act.
149. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Act, the provisions of the Right to Information Act shall 
prevail over provisions herein and a person who is entitled 
to any information under the Right to Information Act shall 
be entitled to receive such information from the PCID, 
the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, the Authority, and the Trust Fund.
Application of the 
Right to 
Information Act
This Act to
prevail over the 
provisions of 
other laws
Protection for acts 
done in good faith


---- PAGE 0201 ----

199
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(2) The PCID, Authority and the Trust Fund, not later 
than three months from the creation of such institutions, 
and the Commission to Investigate allegations of Bribery or 
Corruption, shall for the purpose of carrying out the duties 
and functions of such institutions under this Act appoint an 
Information Officer whose functions shall inter alia include 
the performance of the functions of an Information officer as 
contained in the Right to Information Act.
150. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
“account” means any facility or arrangement by which 
a financial institution does any of the following: 
(a) 	 accepts deposits of currency;
(b) 	 allows withdrawals of currency; or
(c) 	 pays cheques or payment orders drawn 
on the Institution or collects cheques or 
payment orders on behalf of a person 
other than the financial Institution,
and includes any facility or arrangement for 
a safety deposit box or any other form of safe 
deposit;
“Anti-Corruption Act” means the Anti-Corruption 
Act, No. 9 of 2023;
“Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime 
and Witnesses Act” means the Assistance to and 
Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses 
Act, No.10 of 2023;
Definitions


---- PAGE 0202 ----

200
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“Authority” means the Proceeds of Crime Management 
Authority established under section 96 of this 
Act;
“benefit” means an advantage, gain, service, profit, 
or payment of any kind, and the benefits that a 
person derives or obtains or that accrue to him 
including those that another person derives, 
obtains or that otherwise accrue to such other 
person, if such other person is –
(a)	  under the control of;
(b)	 is directed or requested by; or 
(c) 	 has a matrimonial or family relationship 
or a significant importance 
	
to the first person;
“cash” means any coin or paper money that is 
designated as legal tender in the country of issue 
and includes -
(a) 	 bearer bonds;
(b) 	 travelers’ cheques;
(c) 	 postal notes; and 
(d) 	 money orders;
“Civil Procedure Code” means the Civil Procedure 
Code (Chapter 101);
“Code of Criminal Procedure Act” means the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979;


---- PAGE 0203 ----

201
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“Colombo Port City Economic Commission Act” 
means the Colombo Port City Economic 
Commission Act, No. 11 of 2021;
“Commission” means the Commission to Investigate 
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption established 
under section 3 of the Anti-Corruption Act;
“computer system” means a computer or group of 
interconnected computers, including through 
the internet or any other form of connectivity;
“Controlled 
delivery” 
means 
the 
investigative 
technique of allowing a property suspected to be 
proceeds of crime to pass out of, pass through, 
or pass into, Sri Lanka or within one place to 
another in the territory of Sri Lanka, under the 
direct or indirect surveillance of an Investigation 
Officer, for the purpose of achieving the 
objectives of this Act, including but not limited 
to –
(a) 	 enabling the further investigation of the 
offence suspected to have yielded such 
proceeds of crime and the committing of 
offences under this Act; 
(b)	 the identification of all persons involved 
in the commission of the afore-stated 
offences; 
(c)	 collection of evidence relating to such 
property including evidence relating 
to the source of money that enabled 
the procurement of such property 
and financial transactions relating to 


---- PAGE 0204 ----

202
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
or arising out of such property and 
determining whether such property is 
proceeds of crime; or 
(d)	 tracing and identifying persons who are 
having dominion over such property and 
having beneficial interest in respect of 
such property;
“Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing 
Act” means the Convention on the Suppression 
of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005;
“Court” means the High Court of the Republic;
“Currency” means the currency of Sri Lanka or that of a 
foreign country that is designated as legal tender 
and which is customarily used and accepted as 
a medium of exchange in the country of issue;
“dealing with property” means- 
(a) 	 a transfer or disposition of property;
(b) 	 making or receiving a gift of the 
property;
(c)	  removing the property from Sri Lanka; 
(d) 	 where the property is a debt owed to that 
person, making a payment to any person 
in reduction or full settlement of the 
amount of the debt;
(e) 	 using the property to obtain or extend 
credit, or using credit that is secured by 
the property; or 


---- PAGE 0205 ----

203
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(f) 	 where the property is an interest in a 
partnership, doing anything to diminish 
the value of the partnership;
“designated non-finance business and professions” 
includes –
a) 	 casinos including a person who carries 
on a business of casinos through the 
internet and ship-based or vessel-based 
casinos;
(b) 	 real estate agents including property 
developers;
(c) 	 dealers in precious metals and dealers 
in precious and semi-precious stones, 
including but not limited to, metals and 
stones covered by the National Gem and 
Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993;
(d)	 lawyers, notaries, other independent 
legal professionals and accountants, 
when they prepare for or carry out 
transactions for their clients in relation 
to any of the following activities: -
(i) 	 buying and selling of real estate;
(ii) 	managing 
of 
client 
money, 
securities or other property;
(iii) 	management of bank, savings or 
securities accounts;
(iv) 	organization 
of 
contributions 
for the creation, operation or 
management of companies; and


---- PAGE 0206 ----

204
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(v) 	creation, operation or management 
of 
legal 
persons 
or 
legal 
arrangements and the buying and 
selling of business entities;
(e) 	 trust or company service provider not 
otherwise covered by this definition, 
which as a business, provides one or 
more of the following services to third 
parties: -
(i) 	 formation or management of legal 
persons or legal arrangements;
(ii) 	acting as, or arranging for another 
person to act as, a director or 
secretary of a company, partner of 
a partnership, or a similar position 
in relation to other legal persons;
	
(iii) 	providing 
a 
registered 
office, 
business 
address 
or 
accommodation, correspondence 
or administrative address for a 
company, partnership or any other 
legal person or legal arrangement;
(iv) 	acting as, or arranging for another 
person to act as, a trustee of an 
express trust; or
(v) 	acting as, or arranging for another 
person to act as, a nominee 
shareholder for another person;
	


---- PAGE 0207 ----

205
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(f) 	 offshore units in accordance with the 
definitions provided for the same in 
other written laws;
(g) 	 any person engaged in any businesses 
specified in paragraphs (a) to (f) of this 
definition which shall be registered or 
licensed under the Colombo Port City 
Economic Commission Act; and
(h) 	 such other business as may be prescribed 
from time to time by the Minister under 
section 29 of Financial Transaction 
Reporting Act;
“digital currency”–
(a) 	 includes any digital representation of 
monetary value that–
(i) 	 is used as a medium of exchange, 
as valuable consideration to enable 
any transaction, or as a unit of 
account or store of value; and
(ii) 	may not be recognized as legal 
tender; and
(b) 	 does not include–
(i)	 a transaction in which a merchant 
grants, as part of an affinity or 
rewards program, value that cannot 
be taken from or exchanged with 
the merchant for legal tender, bank 
credit or digital currency; or 


---- PAGE 0208 ----

206
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(ii) 	a digital representation of value 
issued by or on behalf of a 
publisher and used solely within 
an online game, game platform, or 
family of games sold by the same 
publisher or offered on the same 
game platform;
“document” means any record of information, and 
includes -
(a) 	 anything on which there is writing; 
(b) 	 anything on which there are marks, 
figures, symbols, or perforations having 
meaning for persons qualified to interpret 
them; 
(c) 	 anything from which sounds, images 
or writings can be produced, with or 
without the aid of anything else; 
(d)	  a map, plan, drawing, photograph or 
similar thing; and 
(e) 	 any of the above kept or maintained in 
electronic form, and includes a digital 
document.
“electronic” shall have the same meaning assigned to 
it by the Electronic Transactions Act, No.19 of 
2006;
“Evidence Ordinance” means the Evidence Ordinance 
(Chapter 14);


---- PAGE 0209 ----

207
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“finance business” includes any one of the following 
businesses or activities: -
(a) 	 banking business as defined in the 
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 or any Act 
enacted in place thereof;
(b) 	 finance business as defined in the 
Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011 or 
any Act enacted in place thereof;
(c) 	 any finance business carried on by any 
society registered under the Cooperative 
Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972 or any Act 
enacted in place thereof;
(d) 	 any  finance business carried on by the 
Department of Samurdhi Development 
established by the Samurdhi Act, No. 
1 of 2013 or any Act enacted in place 
thereof;
(e) 	 pawn brokering under the Pawn Brokers 
Ordinance (Chapter 90) or any Act 
enacted in place thereof;
(f) 	 lending, including consumer credit, 
mortgage credit, factoring (with or 
without recourse) and financing of 
commercial transactions;
(g) 	 financial leasing other than transactions 
relating to consumer products;
(h) 	 money or value transfer services;


---- PAGE 0210 ----

208
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(i) 	 money and currency changing services;
	
(j) 	 issuing and managing means of payment 
(such as credit cards, debit cards, 
travelers’ cheques, money orders and 
bankers’ drafts and electronic money;)
(k) 	 issuing 
financial 
guarantees 
and 
commitments, including but not limited 
to consumer credit, factoring (with 
or without recourse) and financing 
of commercial transactions including 
forfeiting;
(l) 	 trading for its own account or for the 
account of customers in money market 
instruments (such as cheques, bills 
of exchange, certificates of deposit 
and derivatives), foreign exchange, 
exchange, interest rate and index 
instruments, commodity futures trading 
and transferable securities;
(m) 	participating in securities issues and the 
provision of financial services related to 
such issues;
(n) 	 individual 
and 
collective 
portfolio 
management;
(o) 	 investing, administering or managing 
funds or money on behalf of other 
persons;
(p) 	 safekeeping and administration of cash 
or liquid securities on behalf of other 
persons;


---- PAGE 0211 ----

209
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(q) 	 safe custody services;
(r) 	 underwriting and placement of life 
insurance 
and 
other 
investment 
related insurance, as well as insurance 
intermediation by agents and brokers;
(s) 	 trustee administration or investment 
management 
of 
a 
superannuation 
scheme;
(t) 	 any finance business carried out under the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of 
Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 or any Act 
enacted in place thereof;
(u) 	 any finance business carried out under 
the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance 
(Chapter 417) or any Act enacted in 
place thereof;
(v) 	 offshore units in the financial institutions 
in accordance with the definitions 
provided for the same in other written 
laws;
(w) 	any person engaged in any businesses 
specified in paragraphs (a) to (u) of this 
definition which shall be registered or 
licensed under the Colombo Port City 
Economic Commission Act;
(x)	 providing virtual assets services; and
(y) 	 such other business as may be prescribed 
from time to time by the Minister under 
section 29 of the Financial Transaction 
Reporting Act;


---- PAGE 0212 ----

210
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“financial institution” means any person engaged in or 
carrying out any finance business or designated 
non-finance business and profession, or business 
of providing virtual assets services within the 
meaning of the Financial Transactions Reporting 
Act; 
“Financial Intelligence Unit” means the Financial 
Intelligence Unit of Sri Lanka established under 
the Financial Transactions Reporting Act;
“Financial Transaction Reporting Act” means the 
Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 
2006:
“forfeiture” means the conclusive right, title, and any 
interest or beneficial interest to a proceed of 
crime being vested in the state through a judicial 
order in the manner provided by this Act; 
	
Clarification
	
Forfeiture need not be contingent upon a person being 
convicted of having committed the relevant unlawful 
activity;
“gift” means property given by one person to another 
person, and includes any transfer of property 
directly or indirectly;
(a) 	 after the commission of an unlawful 
activity by the first person;
(b)	 to the extent of the difference between 
the market value of the property at the 
time of its transfer; and


---- PAGE 0213 ----

211
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(i) 	 the consideration provided by the 
transferee; or 
(ii) 	the consideration paid by the 
transferor whichever is greater;
“information” includes any fact or message depicted 
by way of any letters, sentence or part thereof, 
symbol, image, pictorial, art, video, sound, 
code, or any other mode of communication, 
and contained in any physical or electronic 
media and may include anything communicated 
verbally which the recipient documents upon 
receipt of the communication;
“instrumentality” means any property which has 
been used by any person exclusively or partly 
to commit any unlawful activity, and the use 
of such property had in the circumstances 
pertaining to the committing of the unlawful 
activity been necessary, and such property may 
include any –
(i) 	 vehicle or other means of transport 
for carriage of persons or goods; 
(ii) 	computer;
(iii) 	software 
application 
or 
programme; 
	
(iv) 	physical or digital storage facility; 
(v)	 machine; 
(vi) 	equipment; and 
(vii) utensil, 


---- PAGE 0214 ----

212
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
notwithstanding its value exceeding the value 
of the proceed of the unlawful activity, and 
the owner of such instrumentality not having 
participated in or intentionally aided the 
committing of the unlawful activity;
“interest” in relation to property, means: 
(a) 	 a legal or equitable estate or interest in 
the property; or 
(b) 	 a right, power or privilege in connection 
with the property;
“Judicature Act” means the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 
1978;
“judicial freezing order” means a judicial order made 
by a court vested with jurisdiction to make 
such order, which causes a property which 
prima - facie appears to be proceeds of crime, 
of which the possession, custody, control and 
dominion to be vested in a person appointed 
by such court, for the protection, preservation 
and management of such property which may 
include its temporary use and utilize pending the 
conduct and completion of judicial proceedings 
to determine whether such property shall be 
forfeited to the state;
“law enforcement authority” includes the, Department 
of 
Customs, 
Excise 
Department, 
Forest 
Conservation 
Department, 
Department 
of 
Wildlife, Sri Lanka Coastguard, and any other 
statutorily created body empowered with the 
investigation of the commission of any offence; 


---- PAGE 0215 ----

213
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“legal arrangement” includes an express trust, a 
fiduciary account or nominee;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject 
of Justice under Article 44 or Article 45 of the 
Constitution, ;
“Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act” means 
Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, 
No.25 of 2002;
“Offences Against Public Property Act” means the 
Offences against Public Property Act, No. 12 of 
1982;
“peace officer” shall have the same meaning assigned 
to it in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act;
“Penal Code” means the Penal Code (Chapter 19);
“person” means any natural or legal person or any 
legal arrangement, including a body of persons 
whether it has legal personality or not, and may 
include a branch, office, or a place of business 
of any such person or body of persons whether 
incorporated, registered or otherwise established 
in or outside Sri Lanka:
“Prevention of Money Laundering Act” means the 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 
2006;
“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made 
under this Act;
“proceeds of crime” includes any property, benefit, 
service, or savings that is wholly or partly 


---- PAGE 0216 ----

214
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
obtained, derived or realized directly or 
indirectly as a result of or in connection with 
the commission of an unlawful activity by any 
person, and includes economic or financial 
gains, savings and funds or property converted 
or transformed, in whole or in part, into other 
funds or property, and would also include 
instrumentalities and the value of such proceeds 
of crime, irrespective of —
(a)	 who carried out the unlawful activity; 
(b) 	 who benefited from the unlawful activity; 
(c) 	 whether the unlawful activity was 
carried out before or after the coming 
into operation of this Act;
(d) 	 whether the unlawful activity was 
carried out in Sri Lanka or elsewhere:
Provided however, proceeds of crime which has 
been purchased, otherwise procured or transacted in any 
manner in good faith for valuable consideration and without 
knowledge or reasonable grounds to believe that such 
property is proceeds of crime, shall cease to be  proceed 
of crime, and in such instances, the valuable consideration 
shall for the purposes of this Act be recognized and treated 
as proceeds of crime;   
Clarification: 
A property, benefit, service, or savings that is wholly or partly 
obtained, derived or realized directly or indirectly as a result of or 
in connection with the commission of an unlawful activity shall be 
proceeds of crime, notwithstanding- 


---- PAGE 0217 ----

215
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(a) 	 the proceeds of crime not having been received by 
the person who committed the unlawful activity, 
and 
(b) 	 the proceed having been given to, received or 
otherwise procured by a third party; 
“property” means an asset of every kind which is 
corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable, 
tangible or intangible situated in Sri Lanka or 
elsewhere, which has financial or economic 
value, including-
(a)	 currency, digital currency, virtual asset, 
account, investment; 
(b)	 any intellectual property;
(c)	 legal documents or instruments in any 
form whatsoever including electronic 
or digital documents, evidencing title 
to, or interest in, such assets, and also 
includes and will not be limited to bank 
credits, travelers’ cheques, deposits, 
bank cheques, money orders, shares, 
securities, bonds, drafts, letters of credit, 
and any interest, dividends or other 
income on or value accruing from or 
generated by such funds or other assets, 
and any other assets which potentially 
may be used to obtain funds, goods or 
services;  
(d)	 any legal or equitable interest in any 
such property; and


---- PAGE 0218 ----

216
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(e)	 any other tangible or intangible thing, 
procured using financial consideration 
and having a financial or commercial 
value;
“prosecution” means action in a court of law pursuant 
to a complaint under the provisions of the section 
136 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, 
Indictment preferred under the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act and the action instituted under the 
Anti-Corruption Act; 
“public property” shall have the same meaning 
assigned to it by the Offences Against Public 
Property Act;
“record” means any material on which data is recorded 
or marked and which is capable of being read 
or understood by a person, computer system or 
other device;
“resident” means any citizen of Sri Lanka or any 
citizen of a foreign country, if such person has 
been in Sri Lanka continuously or otherwise for 
a period of hundred and eighty-three days or 
more in aggregate during the preceding twelve 
months or a citizen of a foreign country who 
is resident or employed in Sri Lanka under the 
authorization of a visa issued by the Department 
of Immigration and Emigration authorizing 
employment or the conduct of business; 
“Right to Information Act” means the Right to 
Information Act, No. 12 of 2016;
“service provider” means-
(a) 	 a public or private entity which 
provides the ability for its subscribers to 


---- PAGE 0219 ----

217
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
communicate by means of a computer 
system or electronic system or by any 
other means; and
(b) 	 any other entity that processes or stores 
computer data or information on behalf 
of that entity or its customers;
“Sri Lanka” includes the territorial waters and air 
space of Sri Lanka;
“subscriber information” means any information 
contained in the form of computer data or any 
other form that is held by a service provider, 
relating to subscribers of its services;
“traffic data” means data-
(a)	 that relates to the attributes of a 
communication by means of a computer 
system; 
(b)	 which is generated by a computer system 
that is part of a service provider; 
(c)	 which shows communications origin;
(d)	 data processed for the purpose of 
the conveyance of a communication 
using an electronic communication 
network, or for the billing in respect 
of such communication and includes 
data relating to the routing, identity 
of the router, duration or time of a 
communication;
“trap” means an organized investigative technique 
which enables the –


---- PAGE 0220 ----

218
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(a) 	 detection of the committing of an 
offence;
(b)	 identification and arrest of a person 
who commits an offence soon after the 
committing of such offence; 
(c) 	 collection of evidence relating to the 
committing of an offence; and
 (d) 	collection of proceeds of such offence 
and instrumentalities thereof; 
“undercover operation” shall mean a process 
within an investigation which involves an 
Investigation Officer or an officer subordinate 
to an Investigation Officer who is subject to 
direction of an Investigation Officer engaging in 
conduct which at times may amount to actions 
constituting an offence, for the purposes of 
achieving the objectives of this Act including 
but not limited to -
(a) 	 tracing, 
locating, 
identifying 
and 
searching suspected proceeds of crime;
(b) 	 identifying 
persons 
who 
commit 
offences; and 
(c) 	 investigation and gathering evidence 
regarding 
such 
persons 
and 
the 
committing of offences; 
“unlawful activity” means any conduct which 
constitutes an offence under the laws of Sri 
Lanka, and shall include-


---- PAGE 0221 ----

219
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
(a) 	 any activity which is wholly or partly 
committed in or outside Sri Lanka which 
constitute an offence under the laws of 
Sri Lanka if it was wholly committed in 
Sri Lanka; and
 
(b) 	 any activity which had been committed 
prior to this Act coming into operation, 
provided, such activity constituted an 
offence under the law of Sri Lanka at the 
time it was committed;   
“virtual asset” means a digital representation of value 
that can be digitally traded or transferred and can 
be used for payment or investment purposes, but 
does not include any digital representation of fiat 
currencies, securities and other financial assets;
“virtual assets service provider” means any natural 
person or legal person who conducts one or 
more of the following activities or operations 
for, or on behalf of another natural person or 
legal person:-
(a)	 exchange between virtual assets and fiat 
currencies;
(b)	 exchange between one or more forms of 
virtual assets;
(c)	 transfer of virtual assets;
(d)	 safekeeping or administration of virtual 
assets or instruments enabling control 
over virtual assets; and
(e)	 participation in, and provision of 
financial services related to an issuer’s 
offer or sale of a virtual asset;


---- PAGE 0222 ----

220
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
“whistleblower” means any person who – 
(a)	 has provided information or material, 
lodged a complaint or made a statement 
regarding any proceeds of crime, the 
committing of an offence under this 
Act, the identity of a person who has 
committed an offence under this Act; or 
(b)	 has disclosed information or material 
which has the potential of been 
investigated into in terms of this Act, 
	
to a Designated Officer, an Investigation Officer, 
a compliance officer appointed in terms of section 
14 of the Financial Transactions Reporting 
Act, a supervisory authority recognized by the 
Financial Transactions Reporting Act or the 
principal executive officer of his employer, that 
such Designated Officer, Investigation Officer, 
compliance officer, supervisory authority or 
the principal executive officer of his employer 
had been unaware of; and includes any person 
who may have assisted or supported such 
whistleblower with regard to the collection or 
the submission of the information or material 
and shall also include members of the family 
of such whistleblower, his dependents and any 
other person of significant importance to such 
whistleblower.
151. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to 
prevail in case 
of inconsistency


---- PAGE 0223 ----

221
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE I
[section 68]
NOTICE CALLING FOR EXPLANATION
1. 	
Description of the property in respect of which the 
information is required (to be filled by the Investigation 
Officer): 
2. 	
Person to whom the notice is addressed to (to be filled by the 
Investigation Officer): 
3. 	
To whom the information shall be forwarded (to be filled by 
the Investigation Officer): 
4. 	
Before when the information shall be forwarded (to be filled 
by the Investigation Officer): 
5. 	
Name of the Investigation Officer:
6. 	
Institution of the Investigation Officer:
7. 	
Signature:
8. 	
Seal:
9. 	
Date of issue:
Nature of the Information Required
	
(a)	
Manner in which the aforestated property was 
acquired, came into position, is owned or is being 
controlled, is having dominion and is presently being 
used.
	
(b)	
Nature of the financial resources or other resources 
used to acquire, posses, own, control, have dominion 
in the aforestated property.


---- PAGE 0224 ----

222
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
(c)	
The manner in which the aforestated financial or 
other resources were earned, received or otherwise 
acquired.
	
(d)	
Identity of the person from whom the aforestated 
property 
was 
received 
and 
the 
associated 
circumstances pertaining to such receipt.
	
(e)	
 If the aforestated properties being held in trust on 
behalf of any other person the name and the details 
necessary to identify and have access to such person.
	
(f)	
If any other person derives or is due to derive any 
benefit from the aforestated property name and the 
details necessary to identify and have access to such 
person.
	
(g)	
If answers to any one or more of the above questions 
is believed to be with any other person name and the 
details necessary to identify and have access to such 
person.
Full name:
NIC Number:
Passport Number:
Employment or Business:
Average monthly income:
Current occupation:
Permanent residence:


---- PAGE 0225 ----

223
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
	
               Signature attested by Justice of Peace /
                Attorney-at-Law/Commissioner of Oaths
I …………............…………….............…. holder of National 
Identity 
Card 
Number………………............…../ 
Passport 
Number…………………………… of (Address) do hereby accept 
that the original of the aforesaid notice was handed over to me by 
……………………………….. on this …………………….(date) 
at ………………(place) at ……………………..(time).
	
	
	
	
	
Signature


---- PAGE 0226 ----

224
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE II
[section 71]
RESTRAINING ORDER
  To :-………………..(Name of the person to whom the restraining 
order is addressed)
  I …………………………….. an Investigation Officer for the 
purposes of Proceeds of Crime Act, No 5 of 2025 acting in terms 
of the powers vested in me by section 71 of the aforesaid Act do 
hereby restraint  you from engaging in any one or more of the 
following activities and direct you to take necessary steps not to 
dispose of, engaging in any transaction relating to, do any thing that 
would destroy or diminish the value, conceal or convert the current 
status, or transfer out of Sri Lanka the property specified below.
Property above referred to 
………………………………………….........…………………
………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………
  This restraining order shall be valid for a period of thirty days 
from today ………….      unless earlier vacated. 
  You are hereby invited to take note that acting in contravention 
of this order shall amount to and offence under section 71 of the 
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025.
  If acting in compliance with any one or more of the above stated 
directions is beyond your control you are directed to give reasons 


---- PAGE 0227 ----

225
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
therefore and notify the under signed of the identity of the person 
who has the ability to comply with this order.
  1. Name of the Investigation Officer:
  2. Institution of the Investigation Officer:
  3. Signature:
  4. Seal:
  5. Date of issue:
  I 
……………………..........…….holder 
of 
National 
Identity 
Card 
Number……………...........……../ 
Passport 
Number…………………………… of (Address) do hereby accept 
that the original of the aforesaid restraining order was handed over to 
me by ……………………………….. on this …………………….
(date) at ………………(place) at ……………………..(time).
	
	
	
	
	
Signature


---- PAGE 0228 ----

226
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE III
[section 71]
PRESERVATION ORDER
  To :-…………...……..(Name of the person to whom the 
preservation order is addressed)
I …………………………….. an Investigation Officer for the 
purposes of Proceeds of Crime Act, No 5 of 2025 acting in terms of 
the powers vested in me by section 71 of the aforesaid Act do hereby 
direct you to take measures that would be necessary to preserve the 
present status of, value, location of the property specified below.
Property above referred to
 ………………………….............…………………………………
………………………….............…………………………………
………………………….............…………………………………
1. Name of the Investigation Officer:
2. Institution of the Investigation Officer:
3. Signature:
4. Seal:
5. Date of issue:
I 
……………………...........…….holder 
of 
National 
Identity 
Card 
Number……............……………../ 
Passport 
Number…………………………… of (Address) do hereby 
accept that the original of the aforesaid preservation order was 
handed over to me by ……………....………………….. on 
this ………….....………….(date) at ………………(place) at 
………………….…..(time).
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Signature


---- PAGE 0229 ----

227
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE  IV
[section 72]
NOTICE OF SEIZURE
To :-………………..(Name of the person to whom the notice of 
seizure is addressed)
 I …………………………….. an Investigation Officer attached to 
……………. hereby give you notice that acting in terms of section 
72 of the Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025 that the property 
specified below has been seized and I on behalf of the state am 
now in possession of such property. Accordingly, in addition to the 
possession I now have lawful control, custody and dominion of 
such property.
Description of the seized property :-………………………………
……….........................................................................................…
1. Name of the Investigation Officer:
2. Institution of the Investigation Officer:
3. Signature:
4. Seal:
5. Date of issue:
I 
……….........…………………. 
holder 
of 
National 
Identity 
Card 
Number…………………../ 
Passport 
Number…………………………… of (Address) do hereby accept 
that the original of the aforesaid notice was handed over to me by 
……………………………….. on this …………………….(date) 
at ………………(place) at ……………………..(time).
	
	
	
	
	
Signature


---- PAGE 0230 ----

228
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE  V
[section 75]
NOTICE OF FREEZING
To :-………………..(Name of the person to whom the  notice of 
freezing is addressed)
I …………………………….. an Investigation Officer attached 
to ……………. hereby give you notice in terms of section 75 
of the Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025 that I shall on or 
about …………….(date) make an application to the High Court 
of Colombo in terms of section 75 to have the property describe 
below frozen by a Judicial Order made by the relevant Hight Court 
Judge.
Description of the property :-……………………………………
……………………………………………………………………
……………………..………………………………………………
….
	 1. 	 Name of the Investigation Officer:
	 2.	
 Institution of the Investigation Officer:
	 3. 	 Signature:
	 4. 	 Seal:
	 5. 	 Date of issue:
I 
……………………...................…….holder 
of 
National 
Identity 
Card 
Number…………….....................……../ 
Passport 
Number 
……………...................……………… 
of 
(Address) ……………………….do hereby accept that the 
original of the aforesaid notice was handed over to me by 
……………………………….. on this …………………….(date) 
at ………………(place) at ……………………..(time).
	
	
	
	
	
Signature


---- PAGE 0231 ----

229
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
SCHEDULE   VI
[section 75]
FREEZING ORDER
I …………………………….., Judge of the Hight Court of Sri 
Lanka holden in …………….zone hereby make Order in pursuance 
to a consideration of an application made to me by Attorney-
General/ Director-General of the  Commission to Investigate 
allegations of Bribery or Corruption acting under subsection (3) of 
section 75 of the Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025 Judicially 
Freezing the under mentioned property.
The property above referred to : …………………………………
…………………………..................................……………………
…………………………………………..................................……


---- PAGE 0232 ----

230
Proceeds of Crime Act, No. 5 of 2025
Department of Government Printing, Sri Lanka.
